   esg report the insidegoodness  the hershey company   esg reporthershey's purpose is to make more moments  of goodness for our consumers today and for  generations to come. integral to achieving that is our  global sustainability strategy: our shared goodness  promise. on these pages we share how sustainability  is being woven into the fabric of our operations as we  grow our business to delight more consumers. more than ever, we are engaging and empowering  the remarkable people who make and sell our  brands. we are working collaboratively with multiple  stakeholders to improve the lives of farmers that grow  the ingredients that go into our products. we are working to reduce our impact on the planet  and create a more sustainable environment. we are  investing in youth and our communities to create a  stronger future for ourselves and our world.it’s what’s countsinside that   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report  the hershey company   esg reporttable of  contents   making good for our future   a message from our ceo   a message from our cso   double materiality   our esg approach and priorities   progress towards our priority goals   awards and recognition   our company   our esg governance   a bold strategy for growth   satisfying consumer needs   excellence in food safety   marketing responsibly   celebrating women and youth through our brands   our progress   cocoa   cocoa for good   goodness inside starts with accountability   cocoa partners   improving income resiliency and livelihoods   eliminating child labor   improving children’s well-being   protecting the environment    the power of cocoalink   our progress  responsible sourcing and human rights    human rights across our value chain   maintaining focus on our most salient human rights   taking action on human rights   responsible recruitment and employment   living wage and income   responsible sourcing   how we responsibly source goods and services   sourcing our priority ingredients and materials   our progress   environment   acting on climate change   reducing ghg emissions in our operations   reducing emissions in our value chain   managing climate risk   making progress on packaging   water: a precious resource   water stewardship in our supply chain   the power — and importance — of biodiversity   innovating waste solutions   environmental partnerships   employees acting for change   our progress  our people   lead today, create tomorrow   safety first   employee well-being and development   investing in development to create tomorrow   dei is good business   more pathways to join   more pathways to reach out   more pathways to grow   our progress   y outh   providing education and opportunity   the heartwarming project   our progress   community   working together for stronger communities   creating a world of good   tackling hunger head on   giving back goodness   our progress   appendices   about this report   ey limited assurance statement  	quantis	 verification	letter  	material	issues	definitions  	salient	human	rights	issues	definitions    contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report making good  for our future    contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report  goodness from  the  inside,  out a message from  our ceoour esg goals go hand in hand with our business  transformation. we can’t accomplish one without the  other. at each step of our journey, we are working to make  and deliver the products people love in a responsible and  sustainable way. as we live our purpose of making more  moments of goodness, we are investing to create a more  sustainable cocoa supply. we’ve embarked on a multiyear  supply chain transformation and infrastructure expansion.  we’re instilling our food safety culture, implementing  socially responsible and sustainable environmental  practices across our operations, and taking concrete  action to reduce our carbon emissions. we’re delivering  more snacks and better-for-you products that expand  choice for our consumers and opportunities to grow our  business. and, we’re embracing the strength that comes  from	diversity,	finding	 ways	to	include	more	people	from	 more backgrounds in ways that help our business, them and  their communities	thrive.	 the approach works. in hazleton, pennsylvania, our  manufacturing capabilities needed to expand while we  were simultaneously faced with labor shortages. the plant is  now	our	first	fully 	bilingual	facility,	employing	 	spanish- speaking employees from the community, supporting the  local economy and families. “say hola” is a living example of  the opportunity that exists when business and communities  come together to embrace business need and social equity.  you will see other examples of how we are working to drive  positive and lasting change throughout this report.facing down challenges we	are	proud	of	our 	progress	in	 	but	continue	to	 face tough issues. the scope and scale of social and  environmental challenges facing hershey and the  communities we touch are daunting. we continue to  make headway on the incredible complexities around  poverty, child labor and deforestation in our cocoa growing  communities, while working diligently on what still needs to  be done. extreme weather and natural resource constraints  disrupt our operations and stressed our supply chain. and  reducing plastic and packaging, conserving water and  natural resources, and reversing biodiversity loss require  concerted collaborative action. in all these things, we  remain	firmly 	committed	to	our 	efforts	and	partnerships	 to ensure	 we	continue	to	make	meaningful	progress	 towards our 	goals. while this road is not easy, we are proudly walking it  with caring people doing great work. for us, esg is not  a program; it’s a way of doing business. as our company  transforms into a leading snacking powerhouse, i consider  the work detailed in this report as the steady and strong  foundation we need to take our company to the next level.  anything — and everything — is possible when passion and  excellence	combine	to	make	a	difference. michele buck   chairman, president and ceo  the hershey companyhere at hershey, we have an ambitious goal to become a  leading snacking powerhouse as we delight consumers  with our sweet and salty portfolio. embedded in that goal —  and in everything we do — is a robust environmental, social  and	governance	(esg)	agenda	that	focuses	our 	efforts	 to deliver long-term business resilience and success and  create positive impact for people and the planet. this report  describes the ways our people seamlessly team across  functions and work with courage and agility in a complex  world and dynamic marketplace to make progress against  our goals. sustainable transformation and growth as a company, we have grown exponentially over the last  five	years.	we	are	proud	to	have	three	of	the	six 	fastest- growing u.s. snack brands in our portfolio and our global  footprint is expanding rapidly. as our business has grown,  so has our commitment to making positive change on  the material issues for our business and stakeholders. as  a result, we are more fully integrating our esg priorities  into every 	part	of	our 	business.   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report  a message from  our cso passion and pride. making more moments of goodness  and	making	a	difference.	here	at	hershey 	these	descriptors	 paint the picture of what drives our business and are  hallmarks of our culture of excellence and togetherness.  as	the	company’s	first	chief	sustainability 	officer,	i	am	 inspired and motivated by the duality of this culture and  what we can achieve when we focus on common goals. i  am driven by our opportunity to deliver successful business  performance and at the same time create positive impact  for individuals, communities and environments that need  it most. in	 	we	reaffirmed	hershey’s	priorities	that	are	 important for our long-term business resilience and are  where we can have the greatest impact. we remain focused  on our operating priorities that include cocoa sustainability,  responsible sourcing and human rights, environment, and  people. and we remain committed to improving the lives  of youth and strengthening communities, both integral to  who	we	are	and	exemplified	in	our 	unique	relationship	 with	 milton hershey school. throughout this report, we share our approaches, key  initiatives, partnerships and progress to challenging issues. we	continued	to	progress	towards	our 	 	cocoa	goals	 with enhanced sourcing visibility and expansion of child  labor monitoring and remediation systems to cover more  children who may be at risk. our plans and programs, such  as	farmer 	premiums	for 	verified	cocoa,	 village	savings	and	 loan associations and our new income accelerator are  informed by stakeholder outreach and are designed to  improve farmers’ livelihoods and reduce poverty, a root  cause of child labor in cocoa. we also share recent stories of impact as well as some of  the obstacles we are encountering as we go about our  work. as our business continues to accelerate and grow,  our reported progress in ghg emissions reductions is  not linear. as our portfolio expands, we are excited about  bringing new manufacturing capabilities into the hershey  network and believe we will be strong stewards of these  facilities.	 we	remain	confident	in	our 	ability	to	achieve	our 	 science-based targets as we further integrate our carbon  reduction strategies across our operations.  as you review our report, we welcome your insight and  feedback as we continue to learn and grow on this journey  to create shared value for all. this collaborative approach  and	our	continued	commitment	to	affect	change	 will	propel	 us forward and make the impact we are all seeking. leigh horner  chief	sustainability 	officer   the hershey companymilton hershey school one of our founder’s most  compelling contributions to the  hershey community was the  hershey industrial school for  orphaned boys. founded by milton  and his wife catherine, they built  the school with the intention  of providing young boys with a  productive	and	fulfilling	life.	now 	 named milton hershey school, this  institution fosters the academic  and	social	potential	of	over 	 , 	 boys and girls a year, providing  them with the skills and resources  for success in all areas of life. prior  to his death, milton hershey left  the entirety of his fortune with the  school to ensure its continued  success. the company’s special  relationship with the school  means that our business success  directly benefits	the	school	and	 students’ lives. progress we are proud of   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report using insights from our double  materiality assessment, we are directing  our efforts and resources to where we  can have the greatest impact for our  business, the planet and people. hershey aligns to best-in-class practices when it comes  to evaluating strategy and prioritizing how we take action  on issues that matter most to our stakeholders. the esg  landscape is constantly evolving in parallel to the continued  growth of our business. as such, we regularly reassess our  esg strategy and priorities embedded across the enterprise  to ensure we’re focused on the right issues to create lasting  change for the future.  in	 ,	 we	conducted	an	inaugural	double	materiality 	 assessment	to	identify 	and	rank 	the	esg	issues	that	affect	 us	financially,	as	 well	as	to	understand	those	areas	and	 ways	 in	which	our 	operations	affect	the	 world.	building	on	our 	 previous	materiality 	assessment,	this	 work	confirmed	 we	 are focused	on	the	right	esg	issues	for 	our	business.	 double materiality assessment process we began by building an extensive list of esg issues  considering: • hershey’s potential external impacts on the economy,  environment and society • the	potential	financial	impacts	of	these	topics	on	our 	 business and operations hershey’s double materiality methodology included layers  of analysis incorporating current global industry trends,  regulations and legislation, standards and frameworks  such as the global reporting initiative (gri) universal  standards, peer benchmarking and our prior materiality  assessment results. we used these analyses to distill the  universe of potential esg issues down to a narrower list  of  	issues.	double  materiality we solicited feedback from key internal and external  stakeholders	on	the	final	list	of	 	issues	and	subtopics	 through surveys and interviews. the results from these  stakeholders, coupled with the future-fit business  benchmark risk assessment tool, allowed us to identify,  prioritize	and	rank 	our	 	most	material	issues.	 these	 	 issues	will	drive	our 	esg	and	business	strategy 	in	 	and	 beyond. all of the material issues represented to the right,  remain a core part of our strategy and focus. they are where  we will place the greatest focus as we continue to identify  key risks, opportunities and emerging issues that will inform  our shared goodness promise.  some	of	hershey’s	 	material	issues	are	fundamental	 expectations and a non-negotiable component of being  a	responsible	corporate	citizen	(e.g., data	protection	and	 cybersecurity, ethics and compliance, workplace health and  safety, and food safety and quality, to name a few) while  others are emerging esg trends requiring even greater  time and attention as we continue to develop our long- term business	strategy 	(e.g.,	traceability,	soil	health). →for a full list of definitions for each of our material issues, see pages   -  of this report. stakeholder engagement our relationships and ongoing dialogue with stakeholders  are an important part of our esg commitment. we engage  with stakeholders to advance our global sustainability  strategy and make progress toward our goals as we seek  to deliver 	on	our	shared	goodness	promise.	 we engage in continuous dialogue throughout the year  with	government	officials,	non-governmental	organizations	 (ngos), customers, investors and other stakeholders to  discuss our esg performance. we also obtain regular  feedback from our employees through our business  resource groups (brgs), green teams, surveys and ad  hoc through direct engagement with the company’s global  sustainability team. these interactions inform our decision  making and help us create powerful collaborations to  address global challenges and systemic issues. materiality matrix significantsignificant majormajor   environmental      social      governanceoutward impactfinancial impactpackaging and end-of-life energy managment farmer livelihoods animal welfareadvocacy and  lobbyingnutrition and health traceability*business  operations and   supply chain  resilience board and   executive oversight*food safety and quality ethics and compliance responsible marketing and labelling data protection and cyber securitysupporting communitieslabor relationsresponsible sourcing diversity, equity &  inclusion (dei)human rights  (supply chain) workplace   health and   safetyemployee attraction, retention  and developmentchild labor water use deforestation waste management soil health*ghg emissions and  climate change biodiversity *new	material	issue	in	    the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report sdgs as a global business, our work touches upon many  of the objectives of the united nations sustainable  development goals (sdgs) from cultivating resilient  communities along our global supply chain and thoughtfully managing our environmental impacts to  delivering sustainably produced snacks and leaving a  legacy of kindness in our communities.  hershey’s esg priorities align with and contribute  to the advancement of the following sdgs: building a sustainable future is a shared responsibility. we  have	re-affirmed	our 	most	material	issues	 which	inform	 and shape our long-term business strategy while positively  impacting the people, planet and society around us. our  four operating priorities and two foundational priorities  (shown at right) remain the same. we continue to embed  esg considerations into the fabric of our organization  through our policies, strategies and processes. addressing  these priorities is more than doing what’s right — it’s taking  imperative action so that our organization can thrive amid  growing societal and environmental challenges.  esg issues are interconnected while we reference our esg priorities and esg material  issues as standalone topics throughout this report, our  work on	each	is	naturally 	interconnected.our esg approach and priorities when we make progress towards our environmental  goals, we simultaneously contribute positively to nature  and biodiversity, which goes hand in hand with our  work	in	procurement	and	responsible	sourcing. as	 we	 make progress within our cocoa for good strategy, we  directly impact farmers and support rural livelihoods and  community development, which promotes respect and  advancement for human rights, ultimately contributing to  a more	resilient	future	for 	our	planet	and	people.	 systems thinking and an embedded esg approach are  critical to success. at hershey this means we leverage our  size and scale as we embrace interconnected systems  with the intent to achieve the change needed for future  generations to thrive.cocoa creating thriving communities  and environments behind our  most essential ingredient. responsible sourcing and  human rights using robust due diligence and  leading standards to protect  people across our value chain. environment enhancing our operations to meet  high-impact climate, waste and  packaging goals. our people creating more ways for more  people to be themselves and  thrive.yo u t h giving youth the tools to create  compassionate, successful and  connected futures. community actively	making	a	difference	 where we live and work.operating priorities foundational priorities   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report priority area priority goals target progress (as of dec.  ,  ) status notes cocoa %	independently 	verified	cocoa    % achieved —  %	sourcing	 visibility	of	hershey’s	cocoa	 volume	in	côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana	    % on track —  %	of	farmers	producing	hershey’s	cocoa	 volume	in	côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana	are	polygon	 mapped by our suppliers to improve traceability and monitor deforestation   % on track    %	of	farmers	producing	hershey’s	cocoa	 volume	in	côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana	are	covered	 by child labor monitoring and remediation systems (clmrs) to prevent, monitor and  remediate child labor   % on track   responsible  sourcing and  human rights %	of	priority 	ingredients	and	materials	to	be	responsibly 	and	sustainably 	sourced	(by 	volume)    % on track    %	of	in	scope	supplier 	sites	meet	hershey’s	responsible	sourcing	supplier 	program	 requirements   % on track — environment %	absolute	reduction	in	scope	 	and	 	ghg	emissions	against	a	 	baseline    % on track    %	absolute	reduction	in	scope	 	ghg	emissions	against	a	 	baseline    % in progress    %	of	plastic	packaging	to	be	recyclable,	reusable	or 	compostable    % on track    	million	pounds	of	packaging	to	be	eliminated   on track   our peopleachieve pay equity for similar job categories across our global salaried employees   in  , we maintained fair and equitable pay  achievements, including  :  aggregate people  of color pay equity for salaried employees in the  united states ( ) and  :  aggregate gender  pay ( ).on track —  – %	 women	representation	across	all	employees	globally    . % achieved —  – %	people	of	color 	(poc)	representation	across	u.s.	employees    . % on track    %	hazard	reduction	for 	job	functions	 with	ergonomic	risks	through	process	improvements    . % on track — yo u t h 	million	children	globally 	supported	through	education,	nutrition,	and	social	and	emotional	 well-being   on track    , 	children	take	heartwarming	actions	and	impact	their 	communities   achieved   community$ 	million	donated	in	cash	and	products	to	community 	partners	focused	on	education,	 community economic development, inclusive communities and health and human services  where we live and work  on track  	beginning	in	 ,	to	be	considered	polygon	 mapped, all farm plots managed by the  farmer	must	be	mapped,	as	defined	by 	the	 world cocoa foundation. previously, a  farmer was considered polygon mapped if at  least one plot of land was mapped.   this refers to households covered by  clmrs.  	this result represents the percentage by  volume	of	hershey’s	five	priority 	ingredients,	 which	met	our 	definition	of	responsibly 	and	 sustainably 	sourced	in	 .	 this	definition	 varies by ingredient and is subject to change  as hershey’s responsible sourcing programs  evolve. more information may be found  in the responsible sourcing ingredient  commitments and progress table on page   .  	hershey's ghg emissions reduction goal  for	 	is	based	on	scope	 	and	scope	  	(market-based).	our 	 	scope	 	and	 scope   data received limited assurance by  ey.  	our	 	scope	 	data	is	 verified	by 	 quantis.		in	 ,	 we	will	be	undertaking	a	 rebaselining	for 	our	scope	 	emissions.   the progress for this commitment currently  represents hershey north american  produced products only (e.g., u.s., canada,  monterrey (mexico), and all export items  from these countries) that are recyclable.  	in	 ,	we	expanded	our 	commitment	to	 eliminate	an	additional	 	million	pounds	 of	packaging	by 	 .	results	represent	 cumulative packaging waste eliminated  ( - ).   poc refers to black, african american,  hispanic/latino,	 asian/asian	pacific	 islander,	hawaiian	pacific	islander 	and	those	 who identify as two or more races.   more than  .  million children were  supported,	cumulatively 	from	january	 ,	  	to	december 	 ,	 .  	more	than	 , 	 children	 took	action	and	 impacted their communities, cumulatively  from	january	 ,	 	to	december 	 ,	 .  	hershey	donated	nearly 	$ . 	million	in	cash	 and	products	cumulatively 	from	january	 ,	  	to	december 	 ,	 . %  %  %  %  %  %  %  %  . m lbs  . %  . %  . %  . m children $ . m ,  children %progress towards  our priority goals    the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report awards and recognition united statesglobal mexico brazil india canada asia no.   our company our values make hershey a special place to work.  they are part of the legacy that guides our actions  today and powers our goals for the future. operating as an ethical company is fundamental to building  trust with our stakeholders. it is consistent with our focus  on creating value for all stakeholders and transforming  our business into a leading snacking powerhouse. we are  guided by a suite of carefully crafted policies and processes,  developed to ensure that we operate responsibly and  remain prepared, resilient and competitive. as our company  innovates to meet the needs of confection and salty snack  lovers, we continue to evolve and strengthen our approach  to transparency and disclosure, adopting leading standards  to ensure that hershey keeps pace. our decisions regarding  business strategy, operations and resource allocation are  guided by our purpose and are rooted in our values. our values togetherness making a difference integrity excellence    contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report our esg governance audit committee: reviews the company’s public  reporting with	respect	to	esg	matters	 within	the	 audit	 committee’s purview. compensation and human capital committee:  oversees consideration of esg matters in executive  compensation program; oversees human capital  management practices, including talent management,  dei and	pay 	equity. finance and risk management committee: reviews  and oversees policies and procedures with respect to  human rights, environmental stewardship and responsible  sourcing/commodities practices within the company’s  supply chain. governance committee: oversees governance of  the company’s esg policies and programs, including  establishment of targets, standards and other metrics used  to measure and track esg performance and progress. management and esg leaders provide deep dives  on	esg issues	for 	the	full	board	at	least	once	a	 year,	 with	relevant committee	updates	occurring	frequently 	 throughout	the year.	 esg topics are regularly evaluated as part of our enterprise  risk management (erm) review process and include  human rights and environmental issues. esg is a standalone  key business risk within our broader enterprise risk universe,  alongside human capital, and climate & environment.as we integrate our esg approach  more deeply into our business strategy  and operations, we’ve expanded the  oversight and execution of our esg  management. we utilize a multi-level  operating structure to ensure we are  aligned on the most important issues  facing the company and are allocating  resources to drive progress within our  shared goodness promise. the governance of hershey’s environmental, social and  governance (esg) program is structured to drive strategic  alignment and operational execution against our priorities.  pursuant to our corporate governance guidelines,  ultimate responsibility for our esg and sustainability  governance oversight rests with the the board of directors,  which oversees all esg matters, including our esg  strategies, priorities, progress, risks and opportunities. oversight	of	specific	esg	responsibilities	and	reporting	 requirements are assigned to relevant board committees,  as stated in their respective charters. board committees  conduct	regular 	in-depth	reviews	of	significant	esg	issues	 to help carry out these responsibilities.esg management accountability for esg and sustainability resides with  our	chief	executive	officer,	 with	shared	responsibility 	 across the management team and program strategy and  operations	led	by 	our	chief	sustainability 	officer. executive team our	ceo	and	her 	direct	reports	conduct	monthly 	reviews of	 our shared goodness promise strategy, data and progress  against our commitments and targets, as well as emerging  esg and sustainability challenges and opportunities. the  executive team ensures our sustainability initiatives are  aligned	with	business	strategy 	and	finalizes	esg-related	 investments.	 the	compensation	of	hershey’s executive	 team	is	linked	to	our 	dei	goals,	a	key 	differentiator 	for	 our industry. disclosure committee hershey’s disclosure committee, led by our chief  accounting	officer 	and	comprised	of	senior 	management	 in	key	functions,	including	our 	chief	sustainability 	officer,	 ensures that our public disclosures, including those related  to esg are consistent, accurate, complete and timely.  sustainability steering committee composed of key business leaders and esg subject  matter experts, this cross-functional group meets at least  quarterly 	to	evaluate	esg	strategy 	effectiveness	and	 interdependencies, provides input on investments to  support esg program deliverables and reviews progress  toward goals and key performance indicators relevant to  our global esg and sustainability programs.global sustainability team led	by	our	chief	sustainability 	officer,	this	team	is	 composed of esg experts who manage the strategy,  implementation and reporting of our global esg and  sustainability initiatives, including climate change and  human rights. the global sustainability team communicates  regularly with internal and external stakeholders who  provide valuable perspectives on our strategies, program  decisions and focus. for more information on our board committees, esg  oversight and responsibilities and approach to executive  compensation, see our  	proxy 	statement.  % of hershey’s board of  directors have experience  at a senior level in esg and  human capital management  (as of may  )   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report we also maintain several policies that control how we  responsibly source key ingredients and the standards and  behaviors we expect from our suppliers. other esg policies  relate to environmental management, human rights, food  safety and other key concerns for our company. our policies  are publicly available on our website. lobbying and transparent policy consistent with our code, hershey does not make political  contributions using corporate funds and only engages in  political giving through the hershey company political  action committee (pac). funds raised through the pac,  which is made up of voluntary employee contributions,  are	used	to	support	candidates	for 	elected	office	 who	 demonstrate a commitment to the growth of our business  and the communities in which our employees live, and  whose values and goals align with the company’s vision  and code. all contributions are disbursed pursuant to our  internal contribution guidelines and in accordance with  applicable election laws. our pac is bipartisan and funds  distributed from the pac are divided equally between both  major political parties at the federal and state levels. see the  pac	annual	report	  for more information.  corporate funds are used to support and advocate for  issues, legislation or referenda of importance to hershey.  these	funds,	classified	under 	the	u.s.	internal	revenue	 code as non-deductible lobbying expenditures, are paid  primarily to industry trade associations and to support the  salaries of our internal government relations personnel. in  accordance with applicable u.s. federal and pennsylvania  law,	our	company 	files	all	required	lobbying	reports,	 outlining the company’s federal and state-based advocacy  work. see our annual report of lobbying and advocacy  expenditures for more information.ethics and compliance  hershey is committed to the highest standards of ethics  and integrity. strong business ethics is key to our success,  and employees value working in an environment where they  can speak up and trust that the company and leadership will  do the right thing.  our code of conduct (the “code") reflects who we are and  what’s important to us, and emphasizes our commitment to  acting ethically. it provides the policies and guidelines that  define	how 	we	do	business,	including,	among	others,	those	 with respect to human rights, anti-corruption, antitrust,  whistleblower protection, and health and safety. all our  directors and professional employees receive annual  training on the code as part of onboarding and annually  thereafter, and must verify that they have read and agree  with the principles it outlines. our ethics & compliance  training program includes required online training, targeted  training and live sessions. the training’s objective is to help  guide employees and provide them with the information  needed to adhere to our code, our company purpose and  values. we audit our compliance program every two years  and regularly conduct fraud and corruption audits and  risk assessments.	 hershey encourages raising concerns and asking of  questions through our reporting channels when individuals  see or experience something that may not follow our  ethical business practices. one such reporting channel is  the concern line, which provides phone and web intake  options for employees and other stakeholders to ask ethics  and compliance-related questions and report unethical  behavior 	anonymously 	and	confidentially.	 the	concern	 line	is	available	 / ,	operates	in	more	than	 	countries,	 is	accessible	in	more	than	 	languages	and	has	toll-free	 numbers available in each of our locations.our esg governance   continued being recognized as an ethical  company means much more  than just complying with  organizational policy and  regulations. this recognition  means we consistently do  business the right way, living  our company purpose and  values, and putting integrity  first in everything we do, which  allows us to earn the continued  trust of our consumers,  customers, communities and  shareholders — a trust we must  never take for granted.”  james turoff, senior vice president,  general counsel & secretary,  the hershey companyethics are for everyone —  winning with integrity!  the hershey company has been recognized  among the  	 world's	most	ethical	 companies® as rated by ethisphere, a global  leader in advancing the standards of ethical  business practices. hershey is one of only nine  honorees in the food, beverage & agriculture  category, our second time as an honoree for  this recognition. we’re proud to be included  in this group of companies, which are known  for historically outperforming their peers and  competitors	financially 	as	this	demonstrates	 a tangible return on investment for doing the  right thing.  at hershey, we face ethics and compliance  risks every day, which is why it is so important  for every employee to learn to identify, act,  report and ask for help when needed. to help  ensure a spirit of compliance, hershey held our  first	enterprise-wide	integrity 	day	in	 .	 the	 ethics & compliance team partnered with our  network of   local compliance ambassadors  at each corporate and manufacturing location  to engage our colleagues in activities to raise  awareness about critical risk areas and how to  use the concern line. to bring this concept to  life, senior leaders shared their perspectives by  describing what leading with integrity looks and  sounds like to them. in addition to the concern  line, hershey’s compliance ambassadors  provide	a	confidential	and	neutral	channel	 for employees to raise ethics and compliance  concerns.   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report  employees play a critical role in safeguarding data. we  regularly educate and engage our people on this topic.  all global,	professional	employees	at	hershey 	are	required	 to	complete	 acceptable	use	and	data	classification	policy 	 training.	in	 january	 ,	we	conducted	our 	inaugural	data	 privacy day, an enterprise-wide event to raise employee  awareness of the importance of respecting privacy,  safeguarding data and enabling trust. data protection and cybersecurity our consumers, customers and coworkers recognize us  as a company that can be trusted and relied upon to be  responsible	 with	their 	data	and	 we	intend	to	fulfill	this	 expectation. we earn this trust by respecting the privacy  of our consumers, customers, employees, retailers and  others with whom we conduct business by maintaining  high standards for data protection, and by handling their  personal information with care. we strive to avoid negative  impacts that could arise from the mismanagement of data.  we are committed to complying with data privacy laws  that prescribe how to responsibly collect, store, use, share,  transfer and dispose of personal information wherever  we operate. as new and expanded data privacy rules  are enacted around the globe, our privacy center of  excellence provides	focused	resources	to	ensure	that	 we are well-prepared to comply with these emerging  regulations.	 this	cross-functional	team,	established	in	 ,	 is charged with designing and implementing appropriate  technical, physical and administrative measures to protect  personal data from unauthorized access, use, disclosure,  alteration or destruction. further, the company’s incident  response plan is reviewed annually and includes business  continuity and contingency plans related to data protection  and cybersecurity. our esg governance   continued   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report we are transforming our company  to become a leading snacking  powerhouse. we are expanding our  portfolio, elevating our capabilities  and growing supply chain capacity  to meet more consumers in more  snacking occasions. consumers have known and loved hershey’s iconic  chocolate	and	confections	for 	more	than	 	 years.	today	 they can enjoy the goodness inside our products on more  occasions by selecting from our growing snack options.  following	our 	 	acquisition	of	 amplify	snack	brands,	 inc	and	our 	 	acquisitions	of	dot’s	pretzels,	llc	(dot’s)  and	pretzels	inc.	(pretzels),	 we	now	offer	two	of	the	fastest	 growing	salty 	snack	brands	in	 : dot’s pretzels and  skinnypop popcorn. 	we	are	integrating	several distinct	 business	models	and	operations	into	one	unified	salty 	 snacks division within hershey. in doing so, we are bringing  the advantages and insights of our scale to enhance the  sales, procurement, manufacturing, distribution and esg  practices	of	these acquisitions. reporting structure in	late	december 	 ,	the	company 	reorganized	our 	 financial	reporting	structure	to	better 	align	our 	brands	and	 the markets we serve, support the breadth and depth of  our product portfolio, and provide more transparency to  our investors. investing in our  supply  chain our ability to grow — today and in the future — is rooted in  the quality of our products and the capacity to make and  deliver those product to meet consumer demand. we've  made	significant	investments	in	expanding	existing	facilities	 and developing new capabilities to speed production  and make more of our brands consumers love. we are  adding production capacity, reliability and flexibility in our  manufacturing operations and making our supply chain  more	agile,	efficient	and	flexible.	 fulfillment and distribution center. we are expanding  chocolate production in derry township, pennsylvania,  with	the	construction	of	a	 , -square-foot	plant	to	 produce chocolate for core brands including reese’s, kit  kat® and other hershey’s products, and is scheduled to be  completed	in	 . research facility in malaysia. this new center will enable  hershey to quickly develop, test and launch new products  customized to the tastes of consumers across the region. it  will become one of our largest research and development  facilities outside of the u.s. production capacity in mexico. we are installing two  high-tech production lines in our manufacturing plant in  nuevo león, mexico. the expansion is expected to increase  output	by 	 %	and	 will	generate	 	new 	jobs	at	the	plant,	 in	addition	to	the	 , 	employees	there	currently.north america confectionery represents our traditional  chocolate and non-chocolate confectionery market  position in the u.s. and canada. this includes business  in chocolate and non-chocolate confectionery, gum and  refreshment products, protein bars, spreads, snack bites  and mixes, as well as pantry and food service lines.  this segment also includes retail operations, including  hershey's chocolate world stores as well as licensing  operations globally. north america salty snacks represents salty snack  products in the u.s. this includes ready-to-eat popcorn,  baked and trans-fat-free snacks, pretzels and other snacks. international encompasses all other operating segments  including geographic regions where we operate outside of  north america. this includes operations and manufacturing  facilities in mexico, brazil, india and malaysia, and the  distribution and sale of confectionery products in export  markets of asia, latin america, middle east, europe, africa  and other regions.  scaling our goodness as we create scale in our salty snacks segment through  acquisitions, we will leverage our global scale to positively  impact both their practices and the broader esg  landscape. together, we are identifying opportunities to  bring the goodness from our proven values, practices and  processes to our new brands and products. from food  safety and responsible sourcing to packaging technology  and resource conservation, we’re evaluating how we can  best bring long-term sustainability to these new parts of  our business. one immediate area of focus is our expanded  supply chain network and responsible sourcing practices,  as our global procurement team shares its expertise in  achieving environmentally 	sound,	socially 	responsible	and	 sustainable impact.a bold strategy for growth  	“hershey eyes opportunities in snacking,”	food	navigator,	may 	 ,	 .   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report material esg issue: business operations and  supply chain resilience sweet salty   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report our snacks portfolioa bold strategy for growth   continued we craft snacks that work for every occasion — from indulgent treats for special  moments to options that support a healthy lifestyle. we use quality ingredients and  leading manufacturing standards and provide user-friendly nutrition information  on our packaging to offer trusted snacks that are safe and delicious. protein snacks research	shows	that	 %	of	consumers	are	looking	to	 add protein to their diet.  through an ongoing investment  in the irish protein bar maker, fulfil nutrition, hershey  supported the launch of a new fulfil nutrition snack- bar business focusing on north america. this enables us  to	offer	our	consumers	more	high-protein,	better-for-you	 confection and permissible snacking options, in addition  to current options such as our low-sugar, high-protein  one bars. what’s next • continue to meet consumer interests in sugar reduction  and protein enhancements across our better-for-you  confection portfolio • continue funding research to develop sugar alternatives,  such as our investment in rare sugar maker, bonumose,  that deliver the same taste, quality and experience that  consumers expect from our cherished brandssatisfying consumer needs making more moments of goodness  means offering a variety of lifestyle  and nutrition choices for a variety of  consumer preferences. nearly	three	in	four 	americans	( %)	snack 	at	least	once	 a day, according to the  	food	and	health	survey  of  the international food information council (ific). but at  the	same	time,	 %	of	 americans	report	that	they 	followed	 a	diet	or	eating	pattern	in	the	past	 year,	a	significant	 increase	from	 %	in	 .  as	one	of	the	 world’s	leading	 candy and snack companies, nutrition and health is an  esg material issue for hershey. we aim to satisfy these  consumer needs by creating a wide selection of choices.  through investments in research to spur innovation and  supply chain infrastructure, we satisfy an ever-widening  range of preferences. our expanding line of products  provides portion control, reduced-sugar, plant-based  and other 	options	that	empower 	consumers	 with	choices	 and information.	 we are committed to transparency and support consumers’  right to know what is in their food. to aid all consumers  in making informed choices, we helped develop an  industry-wide	technology 	for	u.s.	products	in	 ,	 called smartlabel™. by scanning the qr code on our u.s.  product packages, consumers may easily access detailed  information such as nutrition and ingredients, allergens  and	claims.	hershey 	currently 	maintains	more	than	 , 	 smartlabel product pages. hershey continuously explores new options to ensure  consumers can make the best choices to meet their needs.  at our technical center in hershey, pennsylvania, several  of	our	nearly	 	research	and	development	employees	 look for ways to reduce the amount of ingredients such  as sugar and salt in our products, which some consumers  prefer to avoid. this work is overseen by the vice president  of innovation and r&d.  low and zero sugar chocolates nearly three in four consumers are trying to limit or avoid  sugar in their diet.  to	offer	them	choices	they 	can	feel	 better	about,	hershey 	advanced	our 	product	offerings	for 	 sugar management and reduction with new low- and no- sugar	versions	of	our 	core	chocolate	brands.	in	 ,	 we	 offered	more	zero	sugar 	products	so	that	consumers	can	 access healthier options. we also rolled out lily’s sweets,  llc	(lily’s)	no-sugar-added	product	offerings,	following	 our acquisition of this company. further, our acquisitions  of dot’s	and	 amplify	offer	more	snacking	choices	to	 consumers across the nutrition spectrum with products  that are	lower 	in	both	sugar 	and	saturated	fat. affordable choices we are also adding more manufacturing capacity over  the next two years with three new distribution centers  and	 	new 	production	lines.	because	of	our 	investments	 in	capacity 	and	automation,	 we	can	efficiently 	package	 smaller, opening price points for consumers managing a  tight budget.plant-based products more consumers are seeking  plant-based and sustainable  treats, and we are meeting that  preference with the addition of  plant-based	offerings.	 we	are	 launching plant-based versions  of our hershey’s milk chocolate  with almonds and sea salt bar  and reese’s peanut butter cups  in	 .	 we	are	also	planning	to	 introduce plant-based honest®  gummies, made with organic  fruit juice. customer taste and  concerns constantly  change, but hershey  continually innovates  and finds new ways to  satisfy their choices.” charlie chappell, vice president,  innovation and r&d, the hershey  company  ,   	food	and	health	survey , international food information council.    	food	and	heath	survey, international food information council.   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report material esg issue: nutrition and health   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report excellence in food safety a shared responsibility  to drive the right behaviors around food safety and quality,  we provide standardized onboarding for all manufacturing  facility personnel as well as annual refresher training. in   ,	this	required	training	 was	provided	to	 %	of	our 	 manufacturing facility employees. as our company grows,  this training will be incorporated into the integration  process for any acquired manufacturing facilities. food safety is the responsibility of everyone at a food  manufacturing	company.	 thus,	in	 ,	 we	took	several	 steps to create a greater awareness of food safety across  all levels	and	functions	of	our 	organization.	 • a new food safety basics module was added to our  required onboarding training for all new salaried  employees and will be rolled out to all existing salaried  employees	in	 .	 we	also	plan	to	develop	ongoing	 annual awareness modules for all salaried employees to  help them understand how their day-to-day activities  and behaviors	impact	food	safety.	 • we’ve already provided this awareness-level training  to	 %	of	executive	team	members	and	their 	direct	 leadership teams.  • all new quality assurance, engineering and r&d  personnel completed initial training, while existing  personnel on these teams completed an annual  refresher training. targeted training equips employees to  understand their roles and how they impact food safety  so they can advocate for food safety at all times. →for a summary of our data on food safety and nutrition,  see page  . hershey is committed to creating more  goodness inside by delivering quality  products that meet the highest food  safety standards in the industry. hershey's quality management system, known as our  product excellence program (pep) takes a preventive  approach to food safety and quality. this program focuses  on identifying, reducing and eliminating food safety,  product quality and regulatory risks throughout product  design, supply chain, production and distribution. our  quality and regulatory compliance team provides  oversight to the program, ensuring proper controls,  monitoring and rigorous auditing practices throughout  the value chain. our focus is to ensure that our products  are manufactured to high quality and safety standards,  guarding against the potential negative impact of  contamination or food-borne illness that could harm  consumers and our brand. our quality and regulatory compliance team continually  reviews and evaluates emerging regulations and industry  practices to ensure we meet the latest requirements and  best practices. our program meets or exceeds current  global food safety initiative (gfsi) standards. in addition,  all hershey-owned manufacturing facilities are gfsi- certified,	 which	is	an	independent	 verification	of	the	 strength of our food safety and quality systems. but our  success is more than our programs — people are at the core.  all hershey products are designed and produced under  a hazard analysis and risk-based preventive controls  approach. we apply these principles to food safety and  product quality, meeting or exceeding global food safety  regulations. hershey products comply with all applicable  laws and regulations and are manufactured under strict  quality and safety requirements.material esg issue: food safety and quality food safety and quality starts  with our behaviors and culture.  we must continue to build that  mindset as we integrate the salty  snacks segment into the way we  achieve food safety, quality and  regulatory compliance as we  continue to protect our  consumers and our brands.”  mike lapioli, vice president, quality,  food safety and regulatory compliance,  the hershey companyexcellence in food safety   continued   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report bilingual learning  recently, our hazleton, pennsylvania, plant  transitioned to fully bilingual operations  to accommodate changing workforce  demographics in that community.  determined that language should not be  a barrier to employment or food quality,  the quality and regulatory compliance  team stepped up to help prepare the  new spanish-speaking employees for  their new roles. the team supported the  development of bilingual training materials,  knowledge tools and on-the-floor quality  documentation. by developing a new set  of food safety training and tools, we’re  gaining new workers needed to support our  commercial growth without compromising  food safety and quality.food safety across our value chain the entire hershey enterprise, including our recent  acquisitions,	sources	 %	of	ingredients	from	suppliers	 approved through the hershey supplier quality  management	program,	 which	is	defined	and	executed	 in compliance with applicable gfsi and regulatory  requirements. we achieve internal quality standards and  help drive systemic change by helping suppliers achieve  certification	under 	a	recognized	gfsi	standard.	 we	made	 great	progress	toward	the	goal	of	sourcing	 %	of	our 	 ingredients	from	gfsi-certified	suppliers,	 with	 . %	 certified	by 	december 	 ,	 ,	covering	 . %	of	our 	 sourced ingredients by spend. beyond our own organization, we promote food safety  among consumers and across the supply chain. as a  member of the alliance to stop foodborne illness, we  collaborate with like-minded industry stakeholders,  academics, regulatory experts and survivors of foodborne  illness. together we help to improve food safety through  resources such as free food safety webinars and an  online toolkit. what’s next • continue to strengthen adherence to food safety through  new onboarding and annual awareness modules for all  salaried employees • integrate our salty snacks segment into the product  excellence program (pep) to maintain food safety,  product quality and regulatory compliance across  our enterprise • continue leveraging data systems and digital tools to  enable data-driven predictive and proactive decision  making for food safety and quality activities in our  manufacturing operations    the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report we are committed to responsibly  marketing our products to consumers. our strong values guide our behavior in all aspects of our  brand-building work and consumer communications.  we respect that caregivers play a crucial role in teaching  children positive eating habits and the appropriate role  of treats and snacks in a balanced diet. adult consumers  equally deserve access to clear, credible information about  the nutritional content and other attributes of our wide  array of snacks and confections. we have detailed advertising guidelines that our teams  must follow, including advertising to children guidelines.  our marketing teams receive training on these guidelines,  which	govern	how 	we	advertise,	 who	we	target,	and	specific	 advertising guardrails.  hershey is a member of the u.s. children’s food and  beverage advertising initiative (cfbai), which is a  voluntary self-regulation program created to improve the  landscape of food advertising directed at children. under  our individual cfbai pledge, we commit to not engage in  advertising primarily directed at children under the age of   	or,	if	we	do,	to	advertise	only 	products	that	meet	cfbai’s	 nutrition criteria. for measured media, like television, radio  and	print,	 we	do	not	advertise	on	shows	 where	 %	or 	 more of the annual audience on average is composed of  children	under 	the	age	of	 .	beginning	 january	 ,	 ,	 our commitments governing advertising directed to  children, including our cfbai pledge, apply to advertising  primarily 	directed	to	children	under 	 .	we	submit	data	 and information annually to the cfbai demonstrating  compliance with this commitment. in canada, we participate in the canadian children’s  food and beverage advertising initiative (cai), overseen  by advertising standards canada. this commits us to  standards and principles similar to the cfbai in the u.s.  the most recent compliance and progress report from cai  outlines compliance by hershey and all other participating  companies regarding our advertising to children  commitments in canada. leading food and beverage trade associations in canada  have announced a new version of the voluntary food and  beverage advertising code that, for member organizations,  will govern food and beverage advertising across canada,  including advertising to children. under the new version  of this code, advertising for a food product may not be  primarily 	directed	towards	persons	under 	the	age	of	 	 unless	the	advertised	product	satisfies	child	advertising	 nutrition criteria. hershey will comply with the updated  version of the voluntary code when it comes into force  mid- . by agreement, we grant selected third parties a license  to display and use our well-known brands on a variety of  high-quality food and non-food items to be sold in various  outlets throughout the world. we are also proud of the  positive role our products play in raising funds for a wide  range of organizations and programs, including elementary  and secondary schools. that said, in conformance with  our voluntary pledges in the u.s. and canada, we do not  advertise our products to children in elementary schools  and we do not license our brands for use on educational  material or materials intended for use primarily in  elementary schools.ensuring credible, clear claims hershey is committed to providing clear, honest and  accessible information including ingredients, nutrition and  origin on all our products, including those that promote  healthy lifestyles. our food claims review council in the  u.s. works closely with product development teams to  ensure that all new products meet or exceed the standards  of the relevant third-party certifying bodies, e.g., u.s.  department of agriculture (usda) organic and non- gmo	project	 verified.	 the	council	provides	guidance	on	 a wide variety of topics, including nutrition, ingredients,  sustainability, responsible sourcing and product  certifications.	for 	example,	throughout	the	development	of	 updated packaging, the cross-functional council ensures  that all the claims and required labeling elements comply  with applicable law and regulations.marketing responsibly  _hersheys_f_   _kitkat_f_ tkp_hersheyblackmusicmonth_ - -    the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report in	 ,	 we	introduced	two	brand	campaigns	—	hershey’s  she campaign and kit kat black music month — to  lift up women and girls and elevate black and brown  youth through music, respectively. these campaigns  support organizations	including	girls on the run, girl up™,  and memphis music initiative and highlight that we can  achieve business outcomes while promoting social good. in each program, we engaged hershey employees, our  retail partners and their associates, to help us advance  equity and inclusion, amplify underrepresented voices  and support youth. the authenticity of these campaigns  sparked the enthusiasm and energy of people across our  enterprise.	 teams	combined	their 	efforts	to	help	us	reach	 our goals. building on these successful outcomes, we’re  excited	to	continue	these	campaigns	in	 . she campaigns  we activated consumers’ love of our flagship hershey’s  brand through our u.s. and international she campaigns,  and enhanced the programs through philanthropic  relationships with girls on the run and girl up™. the u.s. campaign celebrated the central role that  women and girls play in our lives with a limited edition  hershey’s milk chocolate bar with a new look. as part of  the campaign, we donated to girls on the run,	a	nonprofit	 dedicated to creating a world where every girl knows and  activates her potential and is free to pursue her dreams.  globally, we expanded the her for she campaign that  began	in	brazil	in	 	to	seven	international	markets.	 hershey partnered with girl up™, a girl-centered leadership  development initiative of the united nations foundation  that focuses on equity for girls and women. celebrating black music month with the memphis  music initiative as a heritage site for black music and with more than   	employees	at	hershey’s	manufacturing	facility 	in	the	 city, memphis was an important place for us to focus our  black	music	month	campaign	in	its	first	 year.	we	launched	 a	partnership	 with	nonprofit	memphis music initiative  (mmi), which provides programs that support black and  brown youth through transformative music engagement.  in addition to supporting the organization with a donation,  hershey engaged mmi’s young people to advise and  collaborate on the campaign’s development. limited- edition kit kat bars and hershey’s cookies’n’creme bars  featuring wrappers designed by three black women artists,  shae anthony, baraka carberry and laetitia charles- belamour, and were available in target stores nationwide  during	june	 .	celebrating women and  youth through our brands youth voice is at the heart  of what we do, and we are  grateful to the hershey  company for ensuring  that our young people  are  seen and valued.” amber hamilton, executive director,  memphis music initiative  kpis   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report our progress board of directors* unit       total directors #       women on board of directors #       %  %  %  % people of color on board of directors #       %  %  %  % *board diversity data relates to directors included in the hershey company’s proxy statement for the respective year. financial performance unit       countries in which our products are marketed # of countries       countries in which our products are manufactured # of countries       manufacturing facilities: wholly owned/joint ventures # of manufacturing facilities       consolidated net sales usd in millions $ ,  $ ,  $ ,  one year net sales growth %  . %  . %  . % shareholder return %  . %  . %  . % adjusted diluted earnings per share usd $ .  $ .  $ .  income taxes paid usd in millions $ .  $ .  $ .  worldwide payroll usd in millions $ ,  $  $  investment in r&d usd in millions $ .  $ .  $ .  brands # of brands >  >  >  weight of products sold metric tons  , ,   , ,   , ,    the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report nutrition and health unit       notes revenue from products labeled and/or marketed to promote health and  nutrition attributesusd (in millions) $ , .  $ .  $ .  revenue from products labeled non-gmo usd (in millions) $ .  $ .  $ .     	these	values	represent	revenue	from	our 	snacks	portfolio,	 which	includes	ready-to-eat	popcorn	 with	no	artificial	ingredients,	baked	and	trans-fat-free	snacks,	protein	bars	and	other 	better-for-you	snacks.   this result includes non-gmo confectionery and salty snack products. food safety unit       notes facilities	certified	against	a	gfsi	standard # of facilities         food	safety 	-	major	non-conformances	identified number       — food safety - major non-conformances rate rate  .   .   .  — food	safety 	-	minor	non-conformances	identified number         food safety - minor non-conformance rate rate  .   .   .    product recalls # of recalls         product recalls - total amount of food product recalled metric tons  .   .   .     	all	hershey-owned	manufacturing	facilities	are	certified	against	a	recognized	gfsi	standard.	 as	such,	all	facilities	are	audited	annually 	to	assess	compliance	against	the	provisions	of	the	standards.	 the	 	facilities	certified	 against	a	gfsi	standard	in	 	does	not	include	dot’s	pretzels,	llc	or 	pretzels	inc.	locations.	   the	number 	of	minor 	non-conformances	reported	in	 	 was	previously 	reported	incorrectly 	and	has	been	updated	to	reflect	the	correct	 value.		the	minor 	non-conformance	rate	has	also	been	updated	accordingly.  	this	rate	is	calculated	based	on	the	total	number 	of	audits	completed	in	the	calendar 	year,	which	was	 	for 	 ;	and	total	number 	of	minor 	non-conformances	identified	for 	the	same	time	period.	  	on	a	global	basis,	hershey 	conducted	one	recall	of	its	products	during	 	-	a	production	run	of	lily's	peppermint	flavor 	baking	chips.	  	the	recall	 was	due	to	another 	customer's	product	inadvertently 	getting	mixed	into	the	lily's	package	during	the	packaging	process.		 the	recall	included	 , 	cases	distributed,	equivalent	to	 . 	metric	tons	of	product.kpis cocoa cocoa remains our highest esg priority. our cocoa for  good strategy is designed to positively impact systemic,  social and environmental challenges in cocoa communities.  cocoa	for 	good	is	underpinned	by 	a	 -year 	$ 	million	 commitment focused on improving income resilience  for farming households, improving children's well-being  through access to education and nutrition and working to  eliminate child labor and deforestation. by helping disrupt  the cycle of poverty our aim is to improve cocoa farming as  well as diversify incomes at the household level, educate  families on the value of savings, empower communities,  foster women’s leadership and improve the quality of  nutrition	and	access	to	education.	 as	of	december 	 ,	 we	have	invested	 %	of	our 	original	commitment.   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the hershey company   esg reportcocoa for good why it matters cocoa, our highest priority ingredient, is our  top esg priority and critical to our long-term  business resilience and success. cocoa is  critical	to	the	financial	 well-being	of	many 	 farmers, who face numerous obstacles  including socio-economic challenges  such as lack of income resilience, and lack  of education. many communities face  insufficient	infrastructure	ranging	from	 inadequate	roads	and	schools	to	insufficient	 health care to a lack of modern farming  techniques. too often, the land they work  suffers	from	environmental	degradation	 including poor soil health, aging trees,  threat of disease to trees, and the impacts of  climate change. these social, economic and  environmental challenges threaten the cocoa  supply chain as they can lead to instances  of child labor and unsustainable farming  practices. these intertwined issues impact  the long-term viability and opportunity to  have thriving cocoa communities and the  longevity of our business.we’re working to make cocoa- growing communities stronger  for generations to come.our cocoa for good approach  we play a critical role in designing and implementing  strategies to address these systemic interconnected  issues. hershey, along with other industry leaders, has a  responsibility to contribute to a responsible, ethical and  reliable future to the supply of cocoa. we are committed to  improving the quality of life for cocoa farmers, their families,  their communities and the environment. our cocoa for  good strategy is embedded within our sourcing practices  and supported by our multi-million dollar investment  which targets improving income resiliency and livelihoods,  eliminating child labor and improving children’s well-being  and protecting the environment. to do this:  • we listen to farmers and their families and engage with  local communities and governments in cocoa origin  countries, incorporating their feedback and supporting  people-led change. see listening to and linking arms  with	farmers	on	page	 . • we partner with like-minded organizations to drive  change at scale. see cocoa partners on page  .  • we track our performance and share our successes and  learning opportunities. we carefully, consistently and  continually 	monitor 	our	efforts	to	ensure	that	 we	are	 having the impact we aim to achieve. we engage with  external sector leaders. see goodness inside starts with  accountability 	on	pages	 - .cocoa focus areas  improving income resiliency and livelihoods  we	provide	financial	support	and	training	to	cocoa	 farmers and their families to help create greater  income	resiliency.	 we	focus	our 	efforts	to	financially 	 empower 	women,	enable	access	to	financial	services	 and diversify sources of income to help farmers grow  their business, lift their livelihoods and stabilize their  household income.  → learn more on pages  - . eliminating child labor and improving  children’s well-being we work with local governments, our supply chain  partners, expert civil society organizations and  farming community members to combat child labor,  improve access to and the quality of education and  encourage children to remain in school. we also  work to equip youth with life and business skills  and resources to break the cycle of poverty in their  communities and become tomorrow’s leaders.  we provide improved nutrition for schoolchildren and  training to support home-based food security and  children’s nutrition.  → learn more on pages  - .  protecting the environment  we advance environmentally responsible agricultural  practices, combat deforestation and promote  agroforestry and shade-grown cocoa. we use  polygon mapping to improve traceability, understand  how and where cocoa is being grown and monitor  deforestation risk using satellite technology.  → learn more on pages  - .   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the hershey company   esg report                                                 cocoa for good  in the world we launched our cocoa for  good program and prioritized  our investments in côte d’ivoire  and ghana, where  % of the  world’s cocoa is grown. we’ve  since expanded our programs to  ecuador, indonesia, brazil, nigeria,  cameroon and mexico. → learn more about where we source  cocoa on our corporate website.  key: ❶ mexico ❷ ecuador ❸ brazil ❹ côte d'ivoire ❺ ghana ❻ nigeria ❼ cameroon ❽ indonesia   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report cocoa for good   continued the hershey company   esg reportdelivering on our cocoa ambition:  our planning cycle plan learn do checkwith guidance from hershey policies extensive origin assessments hershey key requirements updated ongoing progress reports from partners veriﬁcation by independent auditors insights from our own ﬁeld visitsperformance  & contract  management select most  impactful  programsdeﬁne ﬁt  for context  intervention,  per origin establish  partnershipssuppliers must align with the un guiding principles  on business and human rights and to the oecd  due diligence guidance for responsible sourcing  business conduct and references and must: • institute a policy commitment to meet the  responsibility to respect human rights • undertake ongoing human rights due diligence  to identify, prevent, mitigate and account for their  actual and potential human rights risks and impacts • have processes in place to enable remediation for  any adverse human rights impacts they cause or  contribute to where the risk of child labor is well documented,  the supplier implements a system to monitor and  remediate	children	identified	in	child	labor.	 these	 human rights due diligence systems are a means of  targeting prevention, mitigation and remediation  assistance to children involved in or at-risk of child  labor, as well as to their families and communities.  these systems include at a minimum: –	awareness raising and training –	monitoring	and	identification –	provision of support –	follow upthis is what an excerpt of the human rights section  looks like.   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report goodness inside starts  with accountability effective mechanisms to evaluate,  monitor and report our progress  are crucial to ensure our programs  effectively address the systemic  challenges that impact cocoa farmers.  the need for due diligence, transparency and accountability  is critical for our ability create positive impact and build  trust with our stakeholders. as we deliver on our cocoa  commitments, we continue to evolve our ways of working,  improve transparency for key stakeholders and provide  consumers with robust information about our products.  we strive to create policies that keep hershey accountable  to our goals and allow stakeholders to track our progress  and create alignment among our global teams. we rely  on	practices	such	as	independent	 verification,	sourcing	 visibility and impact studies as key levers to monitor, assess  and	provide	affirmation	on	the	efficacy 	of	our	actions. cocoa key requirements our cocoa key requirements help us clarify expectations  to our suppliers and partners implement programs in  cocoa	origins.	 this	document	clarifies	our 	expectations	 in regards to human rights due diligence, environmental  stewardship, traceability of cocoa and premiums paid to  farmers, data management, continuous improvement and  independent	 verification.	 with	over 	 	farmer 	groups	 in our programs on multiple continents, this clarity is  needed. inside our hershey key requirements we detail our  expectations in regards to human rights for both child and  forced labor, protecting environment, income resilience  and traceability. the hershey company   esg reportour priority cocoa goals   % independently verified cocoa to	continue	to	deliver 	on	our	commitment	of	 %	 independently 	verified	cocoa,	 which	we	achieved	in	  ,	we	continue	to	collaborate	 with	third-party 	 certifiers,	including	the	rainforest	 alliance	and	fair- trade	usa, as	 well	as	independently 	verified	programs	 through our suppliers.  % sourcing visibility by	 ,	we	aim	to	achieve	 %	sourcing	 visibility	in	 côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana	by 	requiring	that	 %	of	farmers	 producing our cocoa volume in these countries are: • polygon mapped by our suppliers to improve traceability  and monitor deforestation • covered by child labor monitoring and remediation  systems (clmrs) to prevent, monitor and remediate  child labor clear visibility into how and under what conditions the  cocoa we source is grown and cultivated enables us to  implement programs that focus on helping to improve  farmer incomes, eliminate child labor and protect the  environment. responsibly sourcing cocoa and prioritizing  our human rights and environmental expectations  requires collaboration between the public and private  sectors including governments, our suppliers, farmers and  manufacturers. we are also committed to improving farmer  livelihoods and incomes. while	côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana	continue	to	be	the	countries	 where	the	majority 	of	our	programming	is	focused,	in	 	 we implemented cocoa for good in brazil, cameroon,  ecuador, indonesia, mexico and nigeria.data-driven impact  as we evolve and strengthen our cocoa programs, impact  assessments	provide	important	data	to	affirm	 what	is	 making	a	positive	difference	and	 what	may 	not	be	as	 effective.	 we	are	committed	to	improving	our 	data	to	 improve	our 	approach	and	programs. to	this	end,	 we	 engaged ipsos, a global leader in market research, to  assess the	effectiveness	of	the	cocoa	for 	good	program	in	 côte d’ivoire	and	ghana	in	 .	 the	ipsos	study 	measured	how 	effectively 	cocoa	for 	 good	is	achieving	our 	business	objectives	and	fulfilling	 our commitments. it also provided independent,  objective	third-party 	verification	of	impact.	data	from	 this research measured income for cocoa farmers and  their households and informed the development of our  new income accelerator and will be used for current and  future community and farmer programs. ipsos provided  qualitative focus-group	discussions	and	in-depth	 interviews, as well as a quantitative surveys with a cross- section of hershey program participants, female household  members, community education leaders and local farmer  group leaders.  reporting our progress and challenges is an important  aspect of cocoa for good as it provides transparency to  how we are executing our strategies. hershey suppliers and  partners are critical in both implementing the programs in  cocoa communities, as well as providing evidence and data  of program progress. we also use this data to challenge  our thinking and assumptions with the goal to push us  to	further 	strengthen	our 	efforts.	ultimately,	this	leads	to	 better programs and better results for farmers, their families  and the communities in which they live. → learn more in improving income resiliency and  livelihoods on pages  - . % sourcing visibility of our cocoa  volume originating from côte  d’ivoire and ghana, on track to  reaching our   commitment  (as of december  )   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report goodness inside starts with accountability   continued  the hershey company   esg reportwe have a strong role to play in improving the quality of  life among cocoa farmers and their families while ensuring  a sustainable and reliable supply chain for generations to  come. but one company alone cannot solve the systemic  complex challenges. optimal solutions for the cocoa supply  chain require input and action from the entire portfolio of  stakeholders and the public, especially including cocoa  farmers and the origin governments of the countries  from which we source our cocoa. we join forces with and  leverage the expertise and resources of industry peers,  non-governmental organizations, international institutions  and origin governments to create solutions. cocoa partners partners in	 ,	our 	partners	included:eliminating child labor and  improving children’s well-being children of africa foundation,  helen keller international, project  peanut butter, government of  côte	d’ivoire	national	nutrition	 council,	government	of	côte	 d’ivoire national nutrition  programme (pnn), national  council for nutrition, feeding and  early	childhood	(côte	d’ivoire),	 government of ghana ministry  of gender, children and social  protection, government of ghana  school feeding programme.  aflatoun, inades formation, care  international, international cocoa  initiative (ici), save the children,  government	of	côte	d’ivoire	 ministry of national education  and literacy, cns - national  oversight committee for the fight  against	child	labor,	 trafficking	 and	exploitation	(côte	d’ivoire),	 otumfuo osei tutu ii foundation  (ghana).suppliers albrecht & dill trading company,  atlantic cocoa company, barry  callebaut, blommer chocolate  company, cargill cocoa &  chocolate, ecuakao processing  sa, fcstone, general cocoa  company, guan chong cocoa,  indcresa productos del cacao, jb  cocoa, life bv, olam international,  plot,	tafi	sa	and	united	cocoa	 processor, inc.protecting the environment  foundation for the parks and  reserves	of	côte	d’ivoire,	 government	of	côte	d’ivoire	rural	 land agency (afor), government  of	côte	d’ivoire	ministry 	of	water	 resources and forests (minef),  german agency for international  cooperation (giz), meridia,  nature conservation resource  center ghana (ncrc), ghana  cocoa board, government of  ghana ministry of lands and  natural resources, ghana forestry  commission,	ivorian	office	of	 parks and reserves, pur projet,  rainforest alliance, world cocoa  foundation, sourcemap.honoring and engaging with  our partners in the world’s  top cocoa-producing country  we value ongoing dialogue with our partners  and hershey senior leaders, including  our	chief	sustainability 	officer	and	vice	 president	of	procurement,	 visited	côte	 d’ivoire	in	 .	 they	met	with	government	 leaders, our supply chain partners,  development experts and cocoa-farming  families in their communities to hear directly  about their concerns.  we sought to show our ongoing support of  côte	d’ivoire	and	its	farmers	by 	participating	 in national chocolate and cocoa day  celebrations that showcased entrepreneurial  and artisanal chocolate makers, and  participated in awards presentations to  recognize accomplishments of some of the  country’s best farmers and farm groups.  while in west africa, hershey leaders also  presented more than a million servings  of grow nut, a children’s nutritional  supplement, to the children of africa  foundation, whose founder and president  is	côte	d’ivoire’s	first	lady,	dominique	 ouattara.improving income resiliency  and livelihoods  conseil	du	café-cacao	(côte	 d’ivoire),	côte	d’ivoire-ghana	 cocoa initiative, farmerline,  ici, ipsos, vert+, world cocoa  foundation.   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the hershey company   esg reportcontinuing our work to understand and  promote farmer incomes poverty in cocoa-growing communities is the result of many  factors including limited access to credit, weak pricing  negotiating power, overreliance on cocoa for income, aging  plant stock, lack of business tools, social imbalances and  illiteracy. these factors can perpetuate the cycle of poverty  and exacerbate the existence of child labor and deforestation  in these communities. our aim is to assist cocoa farmers’  transition out of poverty through research-based programs. in	 	hershey 	implemented	an	impact	assessment	 methodology with ipsos that included capturing data on  farmer and household income — a commitment hershey  made when we launched our living wage & income position  statement. as part of the ipsos research, we used living  income	definitions	and	benchmarks	endorsed	by 	the	living	 income	community 	of	practice	(licop),	 which	defines	living	 income as: “the net annual income required for a household  in	a	particular 	place	to	afford	a	decent	standard	of	living	for 	 all members of that household.” the results of our impact  assessment with	ipsos	are	consistent	 with	existing	studies	 and	confirms	that	only 	a	small	percentage	of	cocoa	farming	 households earn a household income above the living  income benchmark. the majority of farmers surveyed are  above	the	national	poverty 	line	in	côte	d’ivoire	but	 we	know 	 that is not enough.  we	are	now 	using	these	findings	to	measure	the	efficacy 	 of our programs in addressing farmer livelihoods, including  improving income, and informing our work in premiums,  income	diversification,	and	 village	savings	and	loan	 associations	(vslas).	most	significantly,	this	research	shaped	 the development of our new income accelerator. income accelerator to help cocoa farmers move out of poverty, we are launching  an	income	 accelerator 	in	côte	d’ivoire	in	 	following	 consultations with the ivorian government, farmer groups and other local and international partners. participation in  the income accelerator will be for those farming households  already enrolled and meeting the requirements of our cocoa  for good programs. it will expand on programming included  in our cocoa for good strategy to support cocoa farmers,  their	families	and	cocoa-farming	communities.	 this	five-year 	 program is focused on two strategies: the provision of cash  transfers to supplement farmer income, and investment  in vslas.	 cash transfers cash transfers are a proven poverty reduction strategy that  provide cocoa households with an additional source of  income. as part of our strategy, cash transfers will be awarded  based on the adoption of sustainable and regenerative  farm management practices that increase farm resiliency to  unexpected economic and environmental circumstances. village savings and loan associations vslas are community-based groups that help individuals  — especially women — and communities learn about saving,  borrowing and investing responsibly. vslas provide members  a local structure for increasing savings and accessing loans  at low interest rates in farming communities where formal  banking	and	micro-financing	services	are	scarce.	 they	 serve additionally as a vehicle for empowering women in  communities.	 the	flexible	and	inclusive	financing	provided	 through vslas help improve income, food security and  financial	literacy.	 vslas	often	engage	 women	in	household	 decision making, which can promote entrepreneurship and  support children’s education.  in partnership with rainforest alliance, care and cocoa  farmer	cooperatives,	hershey 	plans	to	upgrade	up	to	 	 vslas	in	its	supply 	chain	and	establish	another 	 	new 	 vslas,	which	we	anticipate	 will	support	up	to	 , 	 additional families.  hershey	currently 	directly	supports	more	than	 	 vslas	 with	more	than	 , 	members,	 %	of	 whom	are	 women.improving income resiliency  and livelihoods below the wb extreme  poverty line below the  wb extreme  poverty linesmall low  %  % medium medium  %  % largemedium  high %  %farm size productivityrevenue  spent on  inputs (%)income  from cocoa (%) key insightbelow the wb extreme  poverty line *learnings are based on an ipsos assessment.  these insights are critical to furt her program development and inform hershey  on which solutions, programs, and interventions are working or not working for the diﬀerent groups of farmers.above the li  benchmark below the li  benchmarkabove the li  benchmarkcôte d'ivoire household:    adults,    children ghana household:    adults,    children priority is to stabilize income and  proﬁtable diversiﬁcation. vsla  participation is highly encouraged.  priority is to refresh farm  development plans that provide  tailored planning advice to families. priority is to identify champions and  learn from this group. advance farm  development plans should consider  intense agroforestry.above the wb extreme poverty line  and below the li benchmark above the  wb extreme  poverty lineabove the wb extreme poverty line  and below the li benchmarkworld bank (wb) extreme poverty line living income (li) benchmark wb extreme poverty line li benchmark %  %  %  % %  %what we learned about the income of cocoa for good  farming families in côte d'ivoire and ghana* an example of how data driven insights  inform our cocoa for good programsmaterial esg issue: farmer livelihoods salient human rights issue: living wage and income   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the hershey company   esg reportcultivating cabbage  pays offsupporting income diversification to help diversify economic opportunities, we support cocoa  community members in developing alternative means of  generating	income.	in	 ,	more	than	 , 	community 	 members were trained in alternative income-generating  opportunities, such as soap making and cassava processing. industry collaboration and the enabling environment  achieving lasting progress toward a living income for  cocoa farmers requires systemic changes supported by  collaborating among diverse stakeholders. on july  ,   ,	hershey 	joined	the	governments	of	côte	d’ivoire	 and	ghana	and	 	other 	chocolate	and	cocoa	companies	 in signing the joint statement of intent, a commitment  to accelerate the move towards living incomes for cocoa  farmers and long-term sustainable cocoa. hershey was also  an active member of the european union cocoa coalition,  a grouping of chocolate and cocoa companies, ngos, and  certification	organizations	that	supported	the	development	 of mandatory supply chain due diligence legislation in the  european union that focuses on ending deforestation  related to the global production of several commodities,  including cocoa.  madam abena oforiwaa had been struggling for eight  years	to	make	a	profit	growing	cocoa	on	 . 	hectares	 of farm land in asankragua, ghana. she lacked capital,  business skills and technical expertise in good agricultural  and	environmental	practices.	in	 ,	madam	 abena	 joined the unicom-hershey cocoa for good program  and enrolled in our farmer business school. from there,  she	received	training	on	financial	literacy 	and	effective	 agricultural	practices	and	crop	diversification.	 with	this	 knowledge,	a	loan	and	the	support	of	the	field	officer,	 madam abena decided to plant cabbage. her venture paid  off,	and	she	harvested	 	sacks	of	cabbage	from	two	acres	 of	production	land,	a	 value	of	approximately 	$ . “before, my family wasn’t able to get an alternative source  of income apart from what cocoa is generating, which is  not	enough.	but	this	 year,	we	significantly 	increased	our 	 income through the cultivation of cabbage with the help  of a loan from our vsla,”said madam abena. “i couldn't  have established and managed the two-acre cabbage farm  without the vsla loan.” case study   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report improving income resiliency and livelihoods   continued  the hershey company   esg reportidentifying and addressing child labor our regular review of key risks in the cocoa supply chain  continues to highlight the importance of monitoring,  preventing and remediating instances of child labor. the child labor monitoring and remediation systems  (clmrs), championed by the ici and proven to be an  effective	measure	in	helping	to	protect	against	child	 labor, is the leading method of child labor detection and  remediation	among	children	aged	 – 	 years	old.	it	is	 implemented by supply chain partners and community- based groups that identify child labor and monitor and help  remediate when cases are found. supply chain partners are  responsible for collecting and reporting on this data. in	 ,	hershey 	began	implementing	industry-aligned	 clmrs best practices executed by supply chain and  community partners. for hershey, “remediated” means  that through our supply chain partners a child has received  mitigation	efforts	appropriate	to	their 	situation,	such	 as being enrolled in school; and as a result, the child no  longer	participates	in	activities	defined	as	child	labor 	and	 is no longer at risk of being enlisted to undertake these  potentially hazardous activities. cases are considered  “remediated” when measures have been documented over  three years.  due	to	case-by-case	differences	between	child	labor 	 situations, remediation can be done at the child, household  or community level. remediation responsiveness, therefore,  can range from almost instant (e.g., household awareness  training that is conducted when data is collected and/ or	cases	found)	to	six 	to	 	months	(e.g.,	renovation	of	 classrooms or school canteens to get kids back to school). children	identified	as	 victims	of	child	labor 	receive	two	 or three follow-up visits over several months to establish  whether they are out of child labor. continued monitoring  then reveals whether those children stay out of child  labor	consistently 	or	are	identified	once	more	engaging	in	 potentially hazardous activities.eliminating child labor eliminating child labor in cocoa-growing communities, child labor is a complex  issue resulting from a mix of poverty, cultural norms and  misunderstandings about what constitutes appropriate  child work on a farm. in many communities, child- appropriate work on the family farm or in the household  is an important part of youth learning and cultural  development. however, endemic poverty and a lack of  educational opportunities in rural areas can lead families  to depend on children putting in long hours at home  and on the farms, which are often the families’ sole  source	of	income.	paired	 with	insufficient	awareness	 about appropriate work, this puts children at risk of  performing farm work that is hazardous to their health  and development. hazardous child labor not only poses a  danger to children: it also plays a role in further entrenching  intergenerational poverty in rural communities. our approach	includes	improving	community 	and	farmer 	 awareness. we also invest in preventive, supplier-led  approaches that monitor farmers to check that child labor is  not occurring and provide resources and oversight to help  remediate instances of child labor if they are discovered.  in addition, we invest in solutions for root causes including  supporting infrastructure like building schools and  renovating classrooms, and providing supplemental  nutrition in schools to help keep children in classrooms  and out of child labor. our income resiliency programs  described	on	pages	 - 	also	seek 	to	provide	improved	 household incomes so families are not reliant on children in  ways that are hazardous.what is child labor? hershey uses the international labor  organization (ilo) definition: child labor is work that is mentally, physically, socially  or morally dangerous and harmful to children and/or  interferes with their schooling. not all work performed  by children, such as helping their parents around the  home	and	assisting	in	a	family 	business,	is	classified	as	 child labor. such activities are sometimes referred to  as “light work.” the worst forms of child labor put children at  the greatest risk and are the highest priority for  elimination. most instances of inappropriate child  labor involve tasks such as carrying heavy loads like  firewood	or 	water,	contact	 with	agrochemicals	or 	 clearing of land with sharp tools. child labor is distinct from forced labor,  which is defined by the ilo as: situations in which persons are coerced to work  through the use of violence or intimidation, or by  more subtle means such as accumulated debt,  retention of identity papers or threats of denunciation  to immigration authorities. as a member of international cocoa initiative’s  forced labor sub-group, working with our peers and  technical experts to advance knowledge, skills and  action on preventing, monitoring, identifying and  addressing forced labor in cocoa supply chains.in	 ,	our 	clmrs	covered	 %	of	farmers	producing	 hershey	cocoa	volumes	in	côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana,	on	the	 way	to	achieving	our 	goal	of	 %	by 	 .	as	of	december 	  ,	our 	clmrs	found	no	evidence	of	forced	child	labor 	 in	our	programs	in	côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana.	more	than	  , 	children	 were	either 	remediated	or 	have	aged	out	of	 the clmrs. we also support the establishment of community-level  child protection committees. composed of trusted  community members, these groups are well-positioned  to raise awareness, identify cases of child labor and  implement the most appropriate practices to remediate  those cases. depending on the type of child labor detected,  remediation support is conducted at the child, household  or	community level. successful child labor remediation strategies vary and need  to respond to the needs of individual children and their  families. they may also be dependent upon the presence  of government social welfare agencies to which cases can  be referred for additional follow-up by local authorities.  by increasing farmers’ awareness of what constitutes child  labor (such as children carrying heavy loads and being  exposed to farm pesticides) and improving farmers’ and  families’	ease	and	efficiency 	of	completing	tasks	around	 the farm, children are less likely to participate in dangerous  farm tasks. what’s next • continue to improve the quality of clmrs and to expand  it with the aim of ensuring no child is overlooked, and  everyone receives the support they needmaterial esg issue: - child labor salient human rights issue: - child labor - forced labor   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the hershey company   esg reporthershey ranked as  leader in protecting  children’s rights hershey	scored	in	the	top	 %	of	 	 worldwide	 food, beverage & personal care companies for our  performance in protecting children’s rights, as assessed  by the stockholm-based global child forum in its  corporate sector and children’s rights benchmark  report, the state of children’s rights and business   .	in	collaboration	 with boston	consulting	group,	 the global child forum assessed how companies  implement children’s rights and sustainability  governance	against	 	indicators,	using	publicly 	 available	data. hershey 	performed	 well	on	the	survey,	 scoring	an	 . 	out	of	 	in	the	benchmark,	 well	ahead	 of peers	in	the	sub-sector 	and	was	featured	in	the	 report as	a	best	practice.	 recognition from the global child forum is  especially 	significant	given	its	integration	 with	the	 world benchmarking alliance and alignment with  the	children’s	rights	principles. we	use	information	 from this report and other industry standards to gain  valuable insights into where our activities are promoting  or potentially damaging children's rights so we can  take action to mitigate risks otherwise overlooked. this  report, among others, helps catalyze systemic change  by informing current best practices. how clmrs is helping keep kids safe children and their families  receive remediation support  from supply chain facilitators and  ngo partners or are referred  to public services, an approach  that is aligned with practices  recommended by the ilocommunity facilitators  visit every farm assigned  to their farmer groupany child involved in hazardous  activity is identiﬁed and information  about his/her situation is recorded the report is veriﬁedthe data is used to design  actions in support of  children identiﬁed.❶ ❷ ❸ ❺❹case study it is imperative that we keep  focusing our efforts at hershey, to  move toward a more responsible  cocoa supply chain, where human  rights are respected. it is only  through collaboration, supported  by appropriate policies, that we  will be able to ensure human  rights are respected in cocoa  communities so that children  can grow, play and develop in a  healthy and safe environment.  success is best when it’s shared.” angela tejada chavez, head of  sustainable sourcing — cocoa,  the hershey company   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report eliminating child labor   continued the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report improving children’s  well-being school-based nutrition not only does satiety improve a student’s ability to  concentrate and learn, it can also be the deciding  factor between whether or not a child attends school.  in collaboration with national and local government  authorities, including school principals, and supply chain  partners	in	côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana,	hershey 	provided	 a	daily	vitamin-fortified	snack,	vivi ,	to	nearly 	 , 	 children	in	 	schools	in	cocoa-growing	communities.	 vivi , developed by hershey and our partner project peanut  butter,	provides	children	 with	 %	of	their 	daily	nutritional	 intake requirements. vivi  is produced in factories in san  pedro,	côte	d’ivoire	and	kumasi,	ghana,	that	employ 	 dozens of local people and provide a secure market for  more	than	 	ghanaian	peanut	farmers. knowing that children will be fed at school is another  reason to ensure they go to class rather than to work,  making	it	an	important	preventive	tool	in	the	fight	against	 child labor. 	providing vivi improves children’s health and  increases school enrollment and regular attendance while  also enabling improved academic performance, according  to an independent audit conducted for hershey by deloitte. preparing a new generation of farm and  community leaders  to break the intergenerational cycle of poverty, a new  generation	of	farmers	in	cocoa	communities	(defined	 as	 	to	 -year-olds)	needs	the	life	skills,	technical	and	 vocational skills and the practical knowledge and tools  needed	to	become	self-sufficient	community 	leaders	 of the future. we support young farmer economic  empowerment through access to vocational training,  land tenure documents and the development of income- earning opportunities such as community pruning teams.  pruning	teams	are	groups	of	up	to	 	 young	adults	 who	help provide essential pruning services to cocoa farmers in  their communities. regular pruning of cocoa trees helps to  prevent tree mold and diseases and reduces the need for  farmers to apply agrochemicals and pesticides. in addition to providing an invaluable service to farmers,  these community pruning teams provide young farmers  in cocoa-growing communities with valuable skills and  knowledge about cocoa farming, while also helping to  support their families with extra income.through access to education,  nutritional support for school children  and vocational training for teens  and young adults, we are helping  communities raise a new generation  of young people better prepared to  become self-sufficient leaders. access to education we seek to proactively prevent child labor by removing  barriers to children being able to attend school and by  encouraging	school	attendance.	 we	focus	significant	 resources	and	effort	on	making	it	easier 	for	children	 to access and continue their education, such as by  improving education infrastructure, training school-parent  management	committees,	providing	school	kits	filled	 with	 important school supplies, distributing vivi (a vitamin- fortified,	peanut-based,	ready-to-use	therapeutic	food)	to	 schoolchildren and helping children and youth obtain birth  certificates	for 	school	enrollment. in	october 	 ,	we	signed	a	five-year 	agreement	 with	 the	jacobs	foundation,	the	government	of	côte	d’ivoire	 ministry	of	education	and	literacy,	and	 	other 	chocolate	 producers and cocoa suppliers to implement the child  learning and education facility. this new public-private  initiative contributes to improved foundational literacy and  numeracy 	skills	for 	five	million	children	at	primary 	school	 level	and	includes	an	investment	in	 , 	new 	classrooms. ,  children enrolled in  primary schools that  benefited from quality  education interventions  ,  school kits provided   education quality and child labor publication | ici.nearly  ,   children in    schools in cocoa-growing communities in  côte d’ivoire and ghana received daily  servings of vivi, our vitamin-fortified,  peanut-based food supplement   birth certificates  obtained to enable  access to school   classrooms renovated the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report mapping and monitoring, supporting  land titling, and promoting agroforestry  are powerful tools to help protect  the environment for cocoa-growing  communities. in the lush equatorial cocoa-growing regions of west  africa, rain forest deforestation and biodiversity loss  are a manifestation of a complex set of root causes  including poverty, the absence of land titles, a lack of  clarity on land tenure arrangements, limited knowledge  of good agricultural practices and resource-challenged  law enforcement agencies. the resulting deforestation  and biodiversity loss have cascading systemic impacts  on myriad other societal, economic and environmental  issue, creating negative feedback loops in these countries.  hershey is focused on making a positive impact in this  complex system. committed to protecting forests protecting existing forests is the cornerstone of our  environmental approach in our cocoa supply chain.  since	 ,	hershey 	has	publicly 	committed	to	no	new 	 deforestation in our global cocoa supply chain. we  utilize three key levers designed to protect the uniquely  rich forests and ecosystems where cocoa is produced.  we proactively monitor forest conditions and changes,  promote	affordable	land	titling,	and	spread	climate-positive	 farming tools and techniques across the cocoa-growing  regions	in	côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana.	each	of	these	practices	 synergistically 	enhances	the	effectiveness	of	the	others	to	 conserve natural forests and adhere to our deforestation  pledge. and each of these practices harnesses the power of  technology-based tools from the use of satellite imaging of  forest lands to handheld gps land surveying tools and the  powerful cocoalink smart phone mobile app. protecting the environment making the cocoa- climate connection eliminating deforestation  resulting from land use change,  particularly that associated with  cocoa, is critical to achieving our  goal	of	a	 %	absolute	reduction	 in	scope	 	ghg	emissions	by 	  	against	a	 	baseline.	 → learn more in reducing emissions  in our value chain on pages  - .securing land titles to unlock land value land ownership is a key element in saving trees. when  farmers gain control of their land they are more likely to  access	financing	or 	make	necessary 	changes	on	their 	farms	 to prevent deforestation, promote reforestation and apply  agroforestry 	and	climate-smart	cocoa	farming.	our 	côte	 d’ivoire land partnership program (clap) has proven to be  an	effective	means	of	promoting	affordable	land	titling	as	a	 catalyst for halting deforestation. hershey co-launched this  program	in	 	 with	the	german	 agency	for	international	 cooperation	(giz),	the	government	of	côte	d’ivoire	and	 other partners. through our intervention and design of  relevant land tenure documents that are government  sanctioned and community accepted, this partnership has  shortened the time of delivery and costs of securing land  titles, greatly improving farmers’ access.  in	some	areas,	such	as	zégo,	a	town	in	côte	d’ivoire’s	lôh- djiboua region, clap provides members of the village  land management committee with technical training on  the use of gps devices to record land rights, with a special  focus	on	land-use	contracts	 with	tenants.	benefiting	from	 fit-for-purpose	technology,	community 	members	can	 now record land rights locally and formalize owner-tenant  agreements, something previously cost-prohibitive for  these communities. through this initiative, farmers are  encouraged to plant more trees since ownership now  resides	with	them	and	they 	eventually 	benefit	from	their 	 own	efforts.  the hershey company   esg reportcase study one of hershey’s foundational strategies for reducing  emissions from deforestation involves compensating  farmers	for 	carbon	benefits	in	the	nsuoekyir 	apimanim	 community resource management area (crema).  crema is a community-based natural resource  management and governance mechanism, which hershey  and partners such as the nature conservation research  centre are implementing in the biodiverse rainforest  habitat of the kakum landscape. under the ghana cocoa  forest redd+ program, the world bank carbon fund  will make payments to the government of ghana for  performance-based emissions reductions (i.e., reducing  deforestation and forest degradation). due to its rich  habitat and high biodiversity, the kakum area will receive  the	majority 	of	these	payments	in	the	form	of	benefits	 to registered farmers adopting climate-smart cocoa,  identified	community-based	development	projects,	and	 to indigenous traditional leaders who have supported  the governance system. by listening to and working with  farmers such as gordon essiaw, an active leader and  enthusiastic supporter of his crema, hershey and our  partners can establish a productive dialogue where we  can share resources and information while catalyzing  responsible land use. gordon essiaw is a cocoa farmer in assin beyede ghana,  where he participates in nsuoekyir apimanim crema.listening to and linking  arms with farmerscase study   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report from sharecropper  to land owner seidu	yakubu,	 ,	is	a	member 	of	the	nyame	nnae	society 	 in the asankragua district and has been share cropping  cocoa	on	 . 	hectares	for 	 	years.	he	depends	solely 	on	 the revenue the farm produces to pay school fees, hospital  bills and other utilities. unfortunately, the farm’s yield  was very low due to over-aged cocoa trees and climate  change impacts. in	 ,	seidu	registered	for 	the	ecom	hershey 	 sustainability program and quickly completed training in  good agricultural techniques, environmental practices,  sustainability and business management. “in	 ,	i	joined	the	hershey 	and	usaid	land	tenure	 systems that aim to address land rights for some farmers  and reduce litigation issues,” reports seidu. ”it came to  rescue us from the dangers of this land tenure system by  renegotiating with our landlords and traditional authorities  and also securing some form of ownership of trees planted  and nurtured by us from the forestry commission unit.  they provided signed documents with farm plan with the  traditional rulers, which gives us ownership of trees planted  on our farmlands. since then, i have been able to plant and  maintained	 	fast-growing	trees	on	my 	farmland,	 which	will	 provide some shade as a protection to the cocoa trees and  help mitigate the negative impact of climate change”. seidu also joined hershey’s payment for ecosystem  services program, which intends to motivate farmers  to restore the ecosystem by compensating them for  planting a required number of shade trees under a proper  management system. seidu is very pleased that in return  for	planting	 	desirable	shade	trees	and	 	fruit-bearing	 pawpaw	trees	he	 will	receive	ghs	 /year per 	acre	for	his	 farm paid in two installments.mr. seidu yakubu, a  cocoa farmer in ghana,  planted   shade and  fruit trees since securing  an ownership title to the  land he farms.protecting the environment   continued the hershey company   esg reportcase study   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report protecting biodiversity in the  kakum conservation area what’s next • launch a deforestation satellite monitoring investment/ program	in	 . • evaluate updating our no deforestation policy  (aligned  to	flag	guidance	to	shift	to	 	as	an	end-date;	 accelerates	 work	from	original	timeline	of	 ,	and	puts	 hershey into closer alignment with peers).  • feasibility 	study	to	understand	potential	areas	for 	côte	 d'ivoire agroforestry. • new program launched with the foundation for the  parks	and	reserves	of	côte	d’ivoire	to	protect	the	newly 	 created mabi-yaya nature reserve. the partnership  includes	replanting	trees	on	nearly 	 , 	hectares	of	 degraded lands inside the reserve’s boundaries. → for a summary of our cocoa goals and kpis, see pages  - .located in central ghana, the kakum conservation area  is one of the most biologically rich forests in ghana. it  forms part of the west africa guinea forest biodiversity  hotspot	 area,	which	has	been	identified	as	having	one	 of the highest levels of biodiversity and species in the  world. commonly referred to as a national park, kakum  is a popular ecotourism site that attracts hundreds of  thousands	of	 visitors	annually 	to	its	wildlife	filled	lush	 forests.	within	a	five	kilometer 	radius	of	the	park,	there	 are	around	 	communities	 with	an	estimated	 , 	 households that maintain cocoa farms typically ranging  from	four 	to	eight acres.   in	 ,	community-based	teams	monitored	bird	diversity 	 within and around the park during the wet and dry seasons,  with support from hershey and other partner cocoa  companies. our commitment to protect forests means  we	take	action	in	understanding	the	benefits	of	forest,	 the	monitoring	of	birds	is	one	of	the	most	effective	 ways	 to understand the health of ecosystems — and even more  important considering the kakum conservation area is  one of the most biologically rich forests in ghana. this  exercise	identified	 	unique	species	of	birds,	 with	a	total	 bird	count	of	more	than	 , .	in	addition	to	birds,	 , 	 species	have	been	identified	as	living	in,	or 	within	proximity 	 to the kakum conservation area, according to the iucn  red list of threatened species. this includes a population  of	approximately 	 - 	critically 	engendered	 african	 forest elephants.female forest elephant and  calf captured by camera-trap  in kakum conservation area  (photos courtesy of ghana’s  wildlife division, kakum  national park headquarters).   satoyama initiativethe main threats to biodiversity in kakum include hunting  and poaching, the loss of complex agroforestry habitats  around the forest, illegal logging in the adjacent forest  reserves and climate change. crop raiding, in which  elephants and other mammals leave the forest to eat  cocoa pods, maize and other food crops from surrounding  farms,	is	also	a	significant	threat	as	it	destroys	people’s	 livelihoods and fosters frustration and anger towards  wildlife and the park. to date, there is no program that  supports compensation for crop raiding or aims to mitigate  the	problem.	in	 ,	hershey 	will	continue	to	 work	with	 our partners to design a program to protect both the  biodiversity 	of	this	important	habitat	and	the	financial	 well- being of the people who live and farm nearby,protecting the environment   continued case study in her own  words: mary  frimpong  ababiomary	frimpong	 ababio,	 	 years	old,	has	been	cultivating	 cocoa	for 	five	years	on	eight	acres	of	agricultural	land	in	the	 goaso fawohoyeden district of the brong ahafo region  of ghana. “i heard about the cocoalink app a year and a month ago  during one of our meetings in ghana. the team gave an  elaborate overview of the app and its usefulness to our  farming and other businesses engaged in. they assisted me  with the download and installation of the app. since then, i  regularly visit it for content for my cocoa farming and other  business activities.  the app has a lot of articles useful for my cocoa cultivation.  it teaches me how to take care of my farm and plantation.  personally, the most important article is pruning. this course  taught me how and when to prune my farm especially when  there is a lot of shade from the leaves of the trees. applying  the lessons learned prevented the spread of mistletoe and  black pod diseases on my farm. another useful course is  choosing and preparing the plantation. it helped me make a  good decision when expanding to my new farm. the article  on rudiments of saving made me appreciate setting money  aside for future use and investments. cocoalink has taught  me how to save my money and also take care of my health. cocoalink is an amazing app and i would recommend it  to every cocoa farmer i know. it has empowered me to  do more and in less than two years of using the app it has  helped me grow more.” the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the power of cocoalink cocoalink, a smart mobile application  which provides training and learning  resources to farmers and agriculture  support staff, was designed with  farmers’ needs in mind. cocoalink provides credible information for sustainable  cocoa cultivation in ghana, leveraging the use of mobile  phones to share practical information with farmers. it is  accessible to farmers regardless of their age and location  and	can	also	be	used	by 	different	stakeholders	in	the	 ghanaian agriculture sector. hershey helped create  cocoalink,	 which	launched	in	 ,	and	has	empowered	 many farmers across west africa by providing good  agronomic practices and up-to-date information to  farmers and	other 	stakeholders	in	the	cocoa	industry.	 why cocoalink? cocoalink provides training and learning resources to  farmers	and	agriculture	support	staff.	 through	cocoalink,	 farmer extension services are delivered to cocoa farmers  through	a	low-cost,	effective	and	realistic	mechanism	 that enables cocoa farmers to request and receive timely  information on farming, social, health and marketing to  improve their livelihoods and most importantly, learn at  their own pace. cocoalink has provided an avenue for thousands of  cocoa farmers in ghana to receive appropriate training  thereby increasing their yield. given that ghana is the  second largest producer of cocoa, cocoalink is a tool with  great potential to transform the lives of cocoa farmers in  the sector.	  y ears of impact   — hershey partners with the ghana cocoa  board to launch the mobile app.  	—	cocoalink 	introduced	to	farmers	in	côte	 d’ivoire.   	—	 , +	ghana	cocoa	farmers	registered	and	  , +	free	text	messages	sent.   — farmers in cocoalink communities increased  their	yields	by 	 . %	in	three	 years.  	—	between	 	and	 ,	cocoalink 	has	 seen	a	significant	usage	amongst	farmers	in	cocoa	 communities in ghana. the number of users has  increased	across	different	supplier 	programs	and	not	 always sponsored by hershey. cocoalink’s features  have been merged with farmerline’s mergdata  education module. we are glad to see how our  initial support has led to the development of a new  organization that is fully independent. today, digital tools are helping unlock entirely  new	possibilities	making	farming	more	profitable,	 efficient,	safer 	and	more	environmentally 	friendly.	 unfortunately, many smallholder farmers in west  africa have stuck to the traditional approaches  passed down to them by their forefathers. this has  affected	their 	productivity 	and	yield.	it	may 	be	a	 simple lack of awareness that has prevented the  adoption of technology in their planting, harvesting  and storage practices. cocoalink is an innovative and smart solution that  provides farmers with real-time information on coping  with dry weather, pruning and pesticide applications  as well as safety and health information. cocoalink is  a hershey supported infrastructure to provide training  and learning resources.   the hershey company   esg reportgoals   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report our progress cocoa target y earprogress (as of dec.  ,   ) goal status notes  %	independently 	verified	cocoa    % achieved —  %	sourcing	 visibility	of	hershey’s	cocoa	 volume	in	côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana	    % on track —  %	of	farmers	producing	hershey’s	cocoa	 volume	in	côte	d’ivoire	and	 ghana are polygon mapped by our suppliers to improve traceability and  monitor deforestation   % on track    %	of	farmers	producing	hershey’s	cocoa	 volume	in	côte	d’ivoire	and	 ghana are covered by child labor monitoring and remediation systems  (clmrs) to prevent, monitor and remediate child labor   % on track    	beginning	in	 ,	to	be	considered	polygon	mapped,	all	farm	plots	managed	by 	the	farmer 	must	be	mapped,	as	defined	by 	the	world	cocoa	foundation.	previously,	a	farmer 	was	considered	polygon	mapped	if	 at least one plot of land was mapped.   this refers to households covered by clmrs. kpis the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report lifting up rural livelihoods unit       notes cocoa for good commitment usd (in millions) $  not disclosed not disclosed   farmer groups supported through cocoa for good # of farmer groups       — farmers supported through cocoa for good total # of farmers  (%	female	) ,  ( %  female) , 	( %	 female) , 	( %	 female)— farm development plans %	(total	#	of	 plans) % ( ,   plans) %	( , 	plans)  %	( , 	plans) — farmers receiving individual coaching total # of farmers  coached	(%) % ( ,   farmers coached) %	( , 	 farmers coached) %	( , 	 farmers coached)— community members trained on nutrition and health total # of  members trained  ,   ,   ,  — community members trained in alternative income-generating activity # of community  members  ,   ,  not applicable    	$ m	is	the	cumulative	amount	invested	as	part	of	our 	cocoa	for 	good	commitment	from	 	-	december 	 ,	 .   this metric is aligned with the world cocoa foundation monitoring, evaluation and learning framework. notes:  data reflects results as provided by hershey suppliers and implementation partnerspreventing child labor unit       notes children monitored # of children  ,   ,   ,    children	identified	 via	clmrs	in	côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana	doing	inappropriate	 work and in process of remediation# of children  ,   ,   ,    children	identified	as	no	longer 	doing	inappropriate	 work # of children  ,   ,  not applicable   children	identified	in	forced	labor # of children       — capacity building — monitoring and remediation agents and community  liaisons (paid and volunteers)#  ,     ,  — children	receiving	 vivi	on	a	daily 	basis	(côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana) total # of children  ,   ,   ,    children	enrolled	in	primary 	schools	that	benefited	from	quality 	education	 interventions# of children  ,   ,  not available — school kits provided # of school kits  ,   ,  not available — birth	certificates	obtained	to	enable	access	to	school # of birth  certificates	   ,  not available — classrooms renovated # of classrooms     not available —  	results	are	cumulative	since	 .	 this	refers	to	children	in	households	covered	by 	clmrs.   results	are	cumulative	since	 .		 as	we	expand	our 	clmrs	coverage,	the	number 	of	children	monitored	increases	as	 well	as	the	likelihood	of	finding	cases.	 as	with	previous	 years,	all	cases	are	in	the	process	of	remediation.  	results	are	cumulative	since	 .		 these	cases	have	been	remediated	or 	children	have	aged	out	of	clmrs.	 this	metric	is	aligned	to	the	ici	protocol.  	vivi	is	our 	vitamin-fortified,	peanut-based,	ready-to-use	therapeutic	food. notes:  hershey strives to align our kpis to industry best practices and methodologies, including the international cocoa initiative, which are constantly improving and evolving.  data reflects results as provided by hershey suppliers and  implementation partners. kpis the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report fighting deforestation unit       notes non-cocoa trees distributed total # of trees  , ,   ,   ,    cocoa seedlings distributed across global cocoa origins total # of  seedlings  ,   , ,   , ,  — land titles acquired with hershey’s assistance #  ,   ,    — farmers with all their farm boundaries mapped via gps polygon mapping # of farmers in  cote d'ivoire and  ghana with all  farms mapped  ,   ,   ,    farm	area	mapped	in	côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana # hectares  ,   ,   ,  — cocoa	for 	good	farmers	in	côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana	trained	on	climate-smart	 cocoa using a curriculum hershey helped develop%  %  % not disclosed —  	non-cocoa	trees	include	trees	that	provide	environmental	(cocoa	companions),	nutrition	(e.g.,	fruit)	or 	economic	(e.g.,	timber)	benefits.   the	methodology 	for	this	kpi	changed	in	 	to	be	more	stringent.	 to	count	one	farmer 	as	being	mapped,	all	the	farms	must	be	polygon	mapped.	 the	scope	of	this	kpi	applies	to	côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana. notes:   data reflects results as provided by hershey suppliers and implementation partnerssupporting women in achieving economic independence unit       notes vslas supported # of vslas       — vsla members total # of  members	(%	 female ) ,  ( %  female) , 	( %	 female) , 	( %	 female)— total savings and interest accrued annually usd $ , ,  $ , ,  $ ,     	 	results	are	cumulative	 values	from	 - . notes:  data reflects results as provided by hershey suppliers and implementation partners. responsible  sourcing  and  human  rights we seek to infuse goodness into our entire value chain by respecting  the rights of people and communities, and by insisting on responsibly  sourced, sustainably grown ingredients. our deep respect for the rights of each person started with our founder milton  hershey. today, that core value is a key business strategy and integral aspect  of our operations. protecting human rights is both a societal expectation and  an opportunity to drive positive impact in communities where we live and  work, through our business practices and relationships. each day, the people at  hershey work to protect and respect human rights across our full value chain.     contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report human rights across  our value chain the hershey company has a deep, longstanding  commitment	to	respect	human	rights.	our 	efforts	 encompass due diligence and programming across our full  value chain, including our operations and supply chain. our human rights strategy is guided by our salient issues  and implemented through due diligence processes  in accordance with the united nations guiding  principles on business and human rights (ungps)  and the organization for economic co-operation and  development oecd guidelines for multinational  enterprises (oecd guidelines). we identify, evaluate and  prioritize	action	on	the	most	significant,	relevant	risks	to	 people, working to enable rightsholders to exercise and  enjoy their fundamental human rights. when we identify  negative impacts, we seek to mitigate them and take  corrective action. accountability for managing human rights is embedded  in our esg governance structure. the director of global  sustainability & esg, director of responsible sourcing and  head of sustainable sourcing cocoa are responsible for  developing and delivering our human rights due diligence  programs and assurance frameworks to detect, protect and  remediate human rights risks and issues, including forced  and child labor issues, in our value chain, including our  agricultural and manufacturing supply chains. additional  details about human rights governance are provided in our  esg	governance	on	pages	 - .	 our other actions to protect human rights, including our  ambition to eliminate child labor, are described in the  cocoa	chapter 	of	this	report	beginning	on	page	 .protecting human rights is a  business imperative that is critical  to our long-term success. why it matters for	more	than	 	 years,	we	have	operated	 on the understanding that we are integral  members of the communities where we  live and work. the remarkable and diverse  group of people who work for hershey and  the individuals who participate in our value  chain are critical to the long-term success of  our company. we believe in the principles of equality and  non-discrimination and are committed to  treating all individuals with respect and  dignity. we use our influence and business  relationships to promote opportunity for all  people throughout our value chain so they  may exercise and enjoy their fundamental  human rights. we also recognize the critical  interdependencies between achieving our  human rights agenda and delivering our  broader commitment to be a responsible  and ethical business. in particular, the need  to address the disproportionate impact of  climate change on vulnerable communities,  how wage and income inequalities are linked  to issues like child labor and deforestation,  and the importance of a just transition.our guiding policies a number of policies, standards and expectations guide  our actions related to human rights. our human rights  policy , which outlines our broader commitment to respect  human	rights	throughout	our 	value	chain,	including	efforts	 to prevent and address modern slavery and forced labor,  was developed in accordance with the ungp on business  and human rights. we look to this and other leading global  standards and frameworks such as the oecd guidelines, to  inform our approach. we review and evolve our policies and  programming	to	ensure	they 	remain	relevant	and	effective	 as an output of our due diligence process as well as  consideration for changing regulatory, non-governmental  organization (ngo) and investor expectations and changes  in our business.  additional information about our human rights standards  may be found in the hershey code of conduct, human  rights policy, hershey supplier code of conduct (scoc),  responsible recruiting & employment policy , living wage  & income position statement, and statement against  slavery	&	human	 trafficking. material esg issue: - deforestation -  human rights (supply chain)salient human rights issue: -  climate impacts and  deforestation - forced labor -  land rights and acquisition   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report human rights at  the enablersrightsholder engagement — social dialoguepolicies and procedures — transparency and accountabilitystrategic partnerships —human rights is core to our esg  strategy. our human rights policy  outlines our commitment to respect  human rights throughout our value  chain. our program is based on the  ungps and delivered through our  robust hrdd programs. our salient  issues to the right, describe our most  pressing issues. our enablers below  describe the actions we are taking  to respond to our salient issues and  inform our programs. it is a complex  system with many interlinkages and  interdependencies that we navigate  and consider in the development  of our core programs.forced labor child labor land rights and acquisitionhealth and safetyliving wage  and income access to water  and sanitation climate impacts and deforestationgender and social inequality   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report maintaining focus on our most  salient human rights we concentrate our actions on the areas  that pose the greatest risk to individuals  and offer the greatest potential for  improving people’s lives. in accordance with the guidance of the ungps, we  reviewed and updated our human rights saliency  assessment	in	 .	 we	undertook 	this	process	to	ensure	 that our human rights due diligence (hrdd) systems  and broader human rights programs are focused on the  most pressing human rights risks in our full value chain  and the areas where we can make the biggest impact. the  results	reaffirmed	the	importance	of	many 	of	the	human	 rights	issues	 we	identified	in	our 	initial	saliency 	assessment	 and	areas	 where	we	already 	have	significant	programming	 such as child labor, forced labor, living wage and income.  the	process	also	helped	us	refine	our 	understanding	of	 how hershey could cause, contribute or be linked to topics  such as: gender and social inequality, climate impacts,  deforestation, and natural resource management, and  resulted	in	updated	definitions	from	 which	we	can	take	 further	action.	complete	definitions	of	each	salient	issue	 are	available	in	the	 appendix 	of	this	report	on	page	 .	 we assessed our full value chain including hershey- owned operations and our upstream and downstream  supply chains. conducted in partnership with twentyfifty,  a leading human rights and business consultancy, we  undertook extensive research on the relevant geographic,  economic, cultural and social factors that play into the  enjoyment	of	rights.	our 	process	also	involved	significant	 engagement with internal and external stakeholders,  including suppliers, ngos, investors and internal  business leaders. where possible, we looked to external  organizations, including advocacy organizations, to serve  as proxies for important rightsholders. taking action on human rights our expanding work in human rights timeline prior to            -          initiated work on our  income accelerator in  cocoa addressed human rights  through our work in cocoa,  responsible sourcing, in our  code of conduct, and in our  supplier code of conductlaunched our cocoa for  good strategy to address  systemic social and  environmental challenges,  including human rightsconducted our ﬁrst  human rights saliency  assessment to identify  risks to individuals versus  the businesspublished our ﬁrst human  rights policy and updated  supplier code of conduct strengthened our hrdd with  launch of our responsible  sourcing supplier and  responsible recruitment  programsreleased living wage &  income position statement  with commitment to pay  full-time employees a living  wage and to strengthen our  programming focused on  cocoa farmer incomesconducted engagement  surveys of workers in  hershey’s malaysia and india  facilities and cocoa farming  communities in côte d’ivoireconducted a baseline  assessment of cocoa  farmer incomes refreshed our human  rights saliency assessment  to revise issues;  conducted a gap analysis  of our hrddadded a human rights  element to our mandatory  code of conduct training  for all professional  employeesdeployed additional  worker engagement  surveys in hershey- owned and supplier  facilities in malaysia,  mexico and  the u.s.   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report we’re working to  build human rights  due diligence systems  that increasingly  engage workers and  farmers directly.” whitney mayer, director,  global sustainability and esg,  the hershey company our hrdd process anchors  our approach and is  embedded throughout our  policies and programs.  salient issues hrdd embed identify & prioritize respond & remediate track communicatepolicies & programs supplier program o n-site social living wage &surveys + direct worker employment program worker & farmer voiceresponsible sourcing    com pliance audits   living income and farmer engagementresponsible recruitm ent & salient issues hrdd embed identify & prioritize respond & remediate track communicatepolicies & programs supplier program o n-site social living wage &surveys + direct worker employment program worker & farmer voiceresponsible sourcing    com pliance audits   living income and farmer engagementresponsible recruitm ent & our due diligence process human rights due diligence (hrdd) is an ongoing risk  management process that enables us to prevent, identify  and mitigate current and potential human rights risks  throughout our value chain, with a focus on our most  salient issues. it is informed by the ungps and utilizes a risk  methodology that we developed with the leading human  rights	nonprofit	 verité.	 to	ensure	our 	approach	remains	relevant	and	effective,	 we	conduct	periodic	updates	and	refreshes.	in	 	 we	 updated our priority ingredient risk assessment. we will  use insights from this refresh to research opportunities  to engage with industry partners and strengthen our  programming. to ensure timeliness, our risk assessment  used updated human rights risk indices for the ingredient  supply	chains	in	specific	countries.	 → learn more in our priority ingredients and materials on  pages  - .  in	 ,	 we	conducted	a	gap	assessment	of	our 	hrdd	 in partnership with twentyfifty. we assessed the  effectiveness	of	our 	overall	program	and	hrdd	systems	 against international requirements in the ungps and  oecd sector guidelines to identify key strengths and  areas of improvement in our human rights strategy  and	programs.	 the	findings	confirmed	that	our 	key	 strengths include a clear governance structure, training  programs and responsible sourcing and supply chain  due diligence programs. we also learned that hershey,  like many of our peers, has the opportunity to improve  in the areas of remedy, grievance mechanisms and  rightsholder engagement. we will continue to look for  ways to strengthen these areas in collaboration with  peers, suppliers,	ngos	and	governments.ongoing hrdd programming includes conducting due  diligence on our own facilities and on those high-risk  suppliers	that	are	identified	through	our 	risk	assessment	 process. through our responsible sourcing supplier and  responsible recruitment programs, we conduct due  diligence	on	specific	topics,	including	human	rights	and	 labor issues.  → learn more in responsible sourcing on page  . we also include human rights risk screening in our  supplier	qualification	process	to	assess	forced	labor 	and	 other human rights risks before entering into commercial  relationships.  → learn more in how we responsibly source goods  and services on pages  - . finally, our commercial contracts for suppliers of plush  cotton and renewable energy include requirements on  forced labor that go above and beyond our supplier code  of conduct, with clear requirements and expectations  around production document records and traceability.taking action on human rights   continued   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report grievance mechanisms and access to remedy  we	seek 	to	provide	access	to	effective	remedy,	in	line	 with the ungps, when our business may cause or may  contribute to adverse human rights impacts. we also  use our influence with suppliers and business partners to  encourage	the	provision	of	remedy 	when	we	find	issues	 linked to our supply chain. those who report a grievance in good faith are free  from retaliation and retribution. our mechanisms are in  addition to other channels or procedures, such as local law  enforcement agencies, to resolve their issue where relevant.  we also partner with other organizations to help prevent,  mitigate and remedy adverse human rights impacts.  examples of how we provided remedy in   • reimbursement of fees in malaysia. learn more in  standing	up	for 	workers’	rights	on	page	 . • identify, investigate, monitor and remediate child labor  situations, when they exist, in our supply chain through  our child labor monitoring and remediation systems in  cocoa. learn more in eliminating child labor on pages   - . training on human rights  we deliver an ongoing and expanding training initiative to  ensure that we fully embed a deep regard for human rights  within	our 	company 	and	across	our 	value	chain.	in	 ,	 we maintained our commitment to provide human rights  training	to	 %	of	procurement	professionals	as	 well	as	our 	 international supply chain, licensing teams and the hershey  experience, our global retail operations. the training covers  hershey’s salient human rights issues — including forced  labor and child labor — the ungps, business impacts to  human rights, human rights in our value chain, how we address and promote respect for human rights, how to  identify and report a human rights violation, human rights  considerations in purchasing practices and how to be an  internal champion for human rights. for	the	first	time	in	 ,	 we	provided	human	rights	 training to all professional employees across our entire  enterprise. our ethics & compliance team integrated  a human rights module into our mandatory code of  conduct training. this training, while not as detailed as  the training for procurement professionals, covers an  overview of fundamental human rights, how to identify  and report a human rights violation, and includes a case  study on indicators of forced labor including recruitment  fees.	in	 ,	 %	of	all	professional	employees	completed	 code of conduct training.  additionally, supplemental human rights training is  available for hershey employees in our learning system  and	is	offered	in	english,	spanish,	french,	chinese,	 portuguese	and	hindi.	since	 ,	more	than	 , 	 employees have chosen to expand their human rights  knowledge and participate in this learning opportunity.  more detailed information on our hrdd approach, the  results of our risk assessment process and our work in  human rights can be found on the human rights section  of our website and in our statement against slavery &  human trafficking.taking action on human rights   continued listening and taking action we provide a number of mechanisms that  enable our employees and individuals in our  supply chain to report grievances and seek  resolution.  how we listen: • hershey’s concern line (available in  more	than	 	languages)	is	primarily 	 geared toward our employees but is also  accessible to our suppliers and other  stakeholders. our concern line accepts  all categories of complaints, including  human rights issues, deforestation, code  of conduct violations and other topics.  • we require that our direct suppliers  have grievance mechanisms, which we  validate via social compliance audits and  through cocoa, sugar and palm oil supplier  sustainability assessments. • our public grievance process for  the implementation of the hershey  company’s responsible palm oil  sourcing policy . • grievance mechanisms made available  through	certification	bodies	or 	standards- setting organizations. • while not formal grievance mechanisms,  our worker and farmer voice surveys are an  additional way for us to understand where  rightsholder concerns might exist.  	this	training	 value	from	 	does	not	include	employees	 from lily’s or pretzel’s,	 which	hershey 	acquired	in	 .   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report recruitment fee practices when we engage with vendors to correct shortcomings or  audit violations, we have three major objectives. we want  to remediate any harm that came from the violation, which  may	include	restitution	to	affected	 workers.	second,	 we	 want the vendor to learn and improve, making a permanent  change in their behavior. finally, we want to drive sustained  improvements in the broader system. a recent incident in  malaysia shows how we achieved each of these objectives. → learn more in standing up for workers’ rights on page  . engaging with rightsholders hershey recognizes the importance of engaging with those  who are impacted by our work — from farmers and their  communities to our employees, consumers and others.  we prioritize identifying and engaging with vulnerable  stakeholders via methods and frequency that align with  their individual needs. we do this both directly and  indirectly through representative organizations when our  position in the supply chain limits us from being the most  effective	partner 	for	direct	engagement.	 we engage with a broad range of organizations from  independent farmers to large suppliers and labor  agencies to tackle shared concerns such as wages,  working conditions, safety, land rights and environmental  conditions. our interactions take many forms, from worker  voice surveys, third-party audits, hotlines and training  to collaborations through sector and industry groups. in  cocoa, for example, our hershey team members, suppliers  and ngo partners conduct regular visits with cocoa  farmers and their communities throughout the year. → learn more in cocoa for good on pages  - .responsible recruitment  and employment we strive to protect the rights of workers  beginning when they’re recruited  and hired throughout the time they’re  employed in our supply chain. we promote and follow ethical recruitment, hiring and  employment practices that reinforce and help us deliver  on our broader commitment to human rights as outlined  in our human rights policy . one of our strategies to  promote responsible recruitment and eradicate forced  labor is strengthening the management systems of labor  agencies that recruit workers into our hershey facilities and  strategic co-packers. see responsible sourcing supplier  program for 	details	around	 work	in	our	supply	chain.	labor 	 agencies are required to complete a self-assessment  questionnaire (saq) every one to three years, depending  on the risk score of the country in which the agency is  located and its previous saq score. we also verify labor  agencies’ recruitment, hiring and employment policies  and procedures through our own desktop research. where  our expectations are not being met, we require that labor  agencies take corrective actions and submit evidence of  completion. to drive systemic improvements in workplace  practices, we provide training with smaller agencies to  help them identify root causes of nonconformities and  implement	effective	corrective	actions.	 we	also	offer 	access	 to the responsible labor initiative’s e-learning academy   to all labor agencies in our program. our achievements • verified	closure	of	non-compliances	of	five	labor 	 agencies in malaysia via sedex members ethical  trade audit (smeta)  -pillar  follow-up audits  and a human rights assessment with impactt, ltd.  worker	voice	surveys	conducted	 with	the	five	 agencies provided positive worker feedback on  the effectiveness	of	due	diligence	efforts.	 • reimbursed	recruitment	fees,	 valued	at	$ , ,	 to  	nepali	agency 	workers.	 • pre-qualified	two	new 	labor	agencies	for 	our	 malaysia plant through smeta or labor agency  equivalent audits prior to contract approval. we support: • the employer pays principle • the consumer goods forum’s priority industry  principles our commitments: • hershey responsible recruiting  & employment policy • hershey supplier code of conduct  our engagement: • the multi-industry, multi-stakeholder  responsible labor 	initiative (rli) • international cocoa initiative's forced labor  working group • aim-progress responsible	recruitment	 working group,	co-chair → for a summary of our responsible recruitment data,  see page  .   the sedex members ethical trade audit (smeta)  -pillar audit protocol is  composed of two modules: labor standards (including human rights and  forced labor topics), and health and safety.  worker  voice surveys   ,  contract and temporary workers and  farm workers shared their experience  of being part of hershey’s supply chain,  more than double compared to    ,  workers engaged through  surveys in   and  in	 ,	 we	expanded	our 	efforts	to	engage	 workers	and	 farm workers in our own operations and in our supply chain  more directly through on-site and mobile surveys. we  conducted worker surveys, including elevate's worker  sentiment survey and a ulula/sedex worker survey, with  several suppliers and co-packer partners in malaysia,  mexico and the u.s. we also conducted elevate's  labor risk survey with all of the labor agency workers  in our malaysia plant. these surveys allowed workers to  anonymously 	and	confidentially 	share	their 	perceptions	of	 their	working	environment	and	confirm	access	to	a	trusted	 grievance	mechanism.	 through	these	surveys	 we	identified	 opportunities for continuous improvement and stronger  worker engagement. we will continue to embed worker  surveys into our other hrdd process, including audits, as  we	deepen	our 	understanding	of	 which	surveys	are	fit	for 	 purpose	at	different	tiers	of	our 	supply	chain.	   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report case study standing up  for workers’  rightsthrough a human rights assessment, we learned that   	nepali	agency 	workers	at	our 	malaysia	facility 	had	 paid recruitment fees to a labor agent in nepal. this is  a violation of our supplier code of conduct and our  responsible recruiting & employment policy. the  assessment also revealed that the workers’ passports  were being held by the labor agency. we do not  tolerate violations	of	these	policies,	and	thus	required	 the labor agency to implement a corrective action plan,  which involved reimbursing the workers and returning  their passports.  to ensure that the labor agency complied with our  requirements, we engaged impactt, an independent  human rights consultancy, to verify the amount of the  fees	to	be	returned	to	the	 	 workers.	hershey 	and	the	 labor agency reimbursed these recruitment fees, valued  at	$ , ,	to	the	 workers.	 we	also	ensured	that	the	 workers had their passports returned and now keep  them secure in their personal lockers at their dorms or  at	work.	impactt	also	 verified	that	the	labor 	agency	had	 implemented its corrective action plan and successfully  closed all the issues.  beyond correcting those issues, we were glad to learn  that the workers reported a better understanding of  their rights and entitlements as workers. in addition,  the workers commented positively on the nature of the  work, the environment and their relations with suppliers.  finally, the labor agency updated its responsible  recruiting procedures, and we continue to work with  the agency on the topic to prevent future workers from  being charged a recruitment fee.  responsible recruitment and employment   continued   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report salient human rights issue: living wage and income   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report living wage and income cocoa supply chain cocoa continues to be where we see the greatest income  vulnerability in our supply chain and, to address this  challenge, we launched an income accelerator focused  on improving	farmer 	incomes	in	côte	d’ivoire.	 → learn more in improving income resiliency and livelihoods  on pages  - .  our broader supply chain while our focus remains on advancing living wage in  our own operations and in our cocoa supply chain, our  research highlights that wage and income vulnerabilities  exist	in	multiple	parts	of	our 	supply	chain.	in	 ,	 we	 partnered	 with	the	fair 	wage	network to	identify 	those	 geographies	in	our 	tier	 	supply	chain	where	wage	risks	 and	vulnerabilities	exist. we	are	using	these	insights	as	 we	 collaborate with other industry organizations or ngos on  this	topic.  we also want to empower companies of all sizes and  categories to understand and measure living wage gaps.  this can be accomplished by providing access to publicly  available benchmarks with credible methodologies and  measurement tools that can be consistently applied and yet  are flexible enough to accommodate the needs of diverse  supplier categories and sizes. we’ve taken several steps to  accomplish this: • as co-chair of the aim-progress living wage working  group, we helped to create the living wage playbook,  a practical	tool	for 	fast-moving	consumer 	goods	 companies and their suppliers to build living wage into  their supply chains • we	provided	grant	funds	to	lw us	to	build	out	a	user- friendly	tool	and	database	that	 will	make	u.s.	specific	 living wage data and benchmarking widely available to  companies with employees and operations in the u.s. • through our role with the idh call to action, hershey  joined with other companies to co-fund the idh salary  matrix for living wagewhat’s next • continue	to	refine	our 	due	diligence	and	programming	 which includes our updated salient issues  • deepen our understanding of the intersection of human  rights and environmental issues, including natural  resource management and the impacts of climate change  and deforestation  • continue our strong programming to address child labor,  promote living wage and living income, and promote  responsible recruitment practicesall individuals deserve the opportunity to earn a decent  standard of living. being paid fairly is a cornerstone of  human rights. we recognize the importance of a living wage  and the opportunity to earn a living income in both our own  operations and throughout our value chain as a step toward  fighting	systemic	poverty 	and	its	cascading	impacts. we adhere to our living wage & income position  statement. we validate our practices through external  benchmarks and research tools that help us identify wage  and income vulnerabilities in our own operations and supply  chain as well as best practices for remediation. in assessing  wage and income vulnerabilities, we consider gaps between  living wage benchmarks and minimum wages, existing  research on farmer income, national systems/transparency  around wage-setting and collective bargaining among  other areas. in	 ,	 we	remained	focused	on	those	areas	 where	 we have the greatest control and influence: our own  operations and in cocoa, where we see the greatest  income vulnerabilities. hershey-owned operations we maintained fair pay practices in our own operations,  paying all full-time global employees a living wage, as  benchmarked by business for social responsibility’s (bsr)  living	wage	values.	in	 ,	based	on	our 	annual	living	 wage	 review process, we provided adjustments to two hourly full- time employees in our manufacturing facilities. to improve  our ability to monitor wages in our own operations, we also  developed an internal living wage dashboard. this tool now  enables us to access real-time gap analyses for part-time  and full-time employees by location. we also maintain our  affiliate	membership	 with	living	 wage	for 	us	(lw us)	 which	helps	us	better 	understand	different	benchmarks,	 gap assessment tools and strategies for remediation.defining living wage vs.  living income living	wage	and	living	income	are	two	different	but	 related concepts that we address in distinct ways.  living wage : the remuneration received for a  standard workweek by a worker in a particular place  sufficient	to	afford	a	decent	standard	of	living	for 	the	 worker and their family; applies to hired workers in  factories, on farms, etc. living income : the net annual income required for  a	household	in	a	particular 	place	to	afford	a	decent	 standard of living for all members of that household;  applies to any income earner, such as self-employed  farmers.  →to learn more please see hershey living wage & income  position statement.taking a broader view we take action on other global challenges that also  pose threats to human rights.  • at its core, systemic racism is a human rights issue.  we have a longstanding commitment to dei  and	we	are	accelerating	our 	efforts	to	be	a	more	 inclusive company. learn more in dei is good  business on page  . • climate	change	poses	a	significant	threat	to	 human rights globally. its impacts disrupt global  food supplies and threaten livelihoods. vulnerable  communities will be disproportionately harmed  by rising temperatures and the related safety and  water scarcity risks. our supply chain includes many communities that will  be impacted if the world does not take bold action  to combat the impacts of climate change. as such,  we are committed to doing our part to take action.  read more	about	our 	climate	commitments	on	 pages  - .  	hershey supports the global living wage coalition's definition	of	a	living	 wage.   hershey is a member of and supports the living income community of  practice definition	of	living	income. material esg issue: - responsible sourcing -  business operations and supply  chain resilience   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report a reliable supply of ethically,  sustainably sourced ingredients is  vital to making more moments of  goodness for many years to come. our responsible sourcing strategy our	responsible	sourcing	strategy 	guides	how 	we provide	 great-tasting, high-quality products to our consumers.  it is designed to deliver positive impact and long- term sustainability in our end-to-end supply chain in  collaboration with our suppliers and industry partners.  our responsible sourcing strategy was developed in  consultation with diverse internal and external stakeholders,  including suppliers, customers, human rights groups and  multiple ngos that work in our raw material value chains.  collaboration with our global network of hershey-owned  operations, suppliers and business partners is critical in  executing our strategy and making sustainable, systemic  progress. our strategy, which is guided by our human  rights policy and our environmental policy , focuses on  responsibly sourcing goods and services and fostering  sustainable	agricultural	communities,	as described	in	 how we	responsibly 	source	goods	and	services	on	 pages  - .responsible sourcing   hershey is committed to upholding the highest standards  for responsibly sourcing our key ingredients and materials  while avoiding negative impacts. our responsible  sourcing strategy  broadly encompasses two elements:  our responsible sourcing supplier program (“supplier  program”), which governs how we engage with direct  suppliers to responsibly source goods and services, and our  priority ingredients and materials approach to sustainable  sourcing. we strive to maintain a supply chain that is  sustainable, responsible and resilient to ensure that we can  continue to operate and grow. to secure the longevity of  our business, we seek to minimize risk and contribute to the  vitality and livelihoods of the communities and ecosystems  we depend on to source our ingredients and manufacture  and deliver our products.  we strive to achieve both traceability — knowing where  an ingredient or material was produced or grown — and  transparency, knowing how it was produced. sourcing  products	from	farms	certified	or 	verified	to	a	recognized	 sustainability standard shows us that the production  practices meet basic requirements of the standard to  address	environmental	and	social	risks. our 	sourcing	 program seeks to address additional related environmental  issues including greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions,  deforestation, water quality, biodiversity and soil health.  → learn more in our priority ingredients and materials on  pages  - .why it matters in a time of geopolitical conflict, increasing  social inequality and climate-driven  disruptions,	it	is	increasingly 	difficult	for 	 companies in the food sector to maintain  a reliable supply chain. labor shortages,  transportation disruptions, water stress and  risks to global economic recovery caused by  responses	to	the	covid- 	pandemic	have	 created challenges such as rising costs and  raw materials shortages. we follow a comprehensive, ongoing process designed to  manage our relationship with suppliers in a way that drives  near-term impact while addressing deeply embedded  systemic challenges. we engage with suppliers to help  them raise their performance through corrective action  plans	and	capacity 	building.	our 	supplier 	program is	 aligned with our human rights saliency assessment  described	on	page	 .	 we	apply 	the	process	described	 on	this	page	to	 verify	and	monitor 	compliance	of	 tier	 	 suppliers with our supplier code of conduct and portions  of the process to hershey-owned facilities. acknowledge all suppliers enrolled in the supplier program formally  acknowledge our supplier code on an annual basis. we  expanded the scope of our supplier contract agreements  by adding a responsible sourcing addendum that includes  some, or all, of the following items depending on the good  or service a supplier delivers. these additions include  hershey’s code of conduct, supplier code of conduct and  responsible recruiting & employment policy, as well as our  expectations and requirements regarding supplier program  and responsible recruitment due diligence, ingredient  sourcing and supplier diversity.  assess suppliers complete saqs on an annual basis which allows  hershey to understand our suppliers’ business practices  and areas for improvement that may require follow-up prior  to an on-site audit. we	continue	to	assess	 tier	 	suppliers	and	sites	and	enroll	 those who we identify as high-risk or high priority into the  supplier program. our supplier assessment covers four  categories of risks: human rights risks based on geography;  human rights risks based on value chain; volume of hershey  spend;	and	supplier 	continuity 	risks.	in	 ,	 	new 	suppliers and sites were enrolled into the supplier program,  mainly contract manufacturers and packers for hershey, our  confection and salty businesses, as well as new licensees.  prior to entering into a commercial relationship with  hershey, prospective suppliers undergo a responsible  sourcing and human rights screening that includes  responding to a saq and/or providing a social compliance  audit for hershey to review. the pre-screening process  reviews the supplier’s management systems related  to human rights and labor topics, among other social  compliance topics. human rights screening is now formally  part	of	the	pre-qualification	and	approval	process	for 	 ingredients, packaging, co-manufacturer/co-packer,  and	licensing	manufacturing	sites.	in	 ,	 	new 	sites	 underwent human rights screening, of which four sites were  not approved; several sites are still undergoing the human  rights screening process. audit we	use	independent	third-party 	verification	tools,	 including	smeta 	 -pillar	audits , to	monitor 	compliance	 and proactively identify opportunities for future due  diligence. in our supplier program, we review and score  audit reports using an internal audit grading matrix, which  we	updated	based	on	learnings	from	the	first	two	 years	 of our supplier program and current salient human rights  and environmental risks. audit results inform follow-up  requirements	and	timelines	for 	completion. in	 ,	 we	 implemented a formal internal escalation protocol that  facilitates clear decision making across functions to ensure  efficient	and	effective	responses	to	and	remediation	of	any 	 critical or zero tolerance issues. more detailed information about our critical and zero  tolerance violations can be found in appendix a of our  supplier program guidebook.remediate hershey aims to work with suppliers that share our values.  when	instances	of	non-compliance	are	identified,	 we	 require suppliers to develop corrective action plans (cap)  that include addressing the root cause of the issues and  remediating the non-compliance. we are also committed to  collaborating and working with our suppliers on continuous  improvement.	 the	most	commonly 	identified	non- compliances are related to health and safety, working hours,  and	wages	and	benefits.	see	our 	 	non-compliance	 issues by category data table on page   for details.  we identify capability-building opportunities to enable  suppliers to achieve compliance and improve the lives  of workers.	 through our involvement with aim-progress, we  collaborate with our peers to raise the bar for responsible  sourcing in the fast-moving consumer goods supply  chain.	in	 ,	 we	provided	capacity-building	training	 to	 	suppliers	in	brazil	and	mexico.	 topics	covered	in	 these trainings included hrdd, responsible recruitment  and	labor 	rights,	health	and	safety,	and	effective	 management systems.	 we funded a training on the ethical trade initiative and  smeta	 -pillar	audits	for 	our	malaysia	plant	and	labor 	 agencies. we also provided targeted training for two  suppliers in mexico who are less experienced in social  compliance	audits	and	developing	effective	caps	 following the review 	of	their	smeta	 -pillar	audits.  we continue to track supplier performance and non- compliance trends to inform the appropriate training  resources and events to support their continuous  improvement journeys. looking ahead, we are developing  longer-term plans to improve supplier performance  through aim-progress and local ngos in-country.    the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report how we responsibly  source goods and services   top three non-  compliance issues: ❶  health, safety & hygiene ❷  working hours ❸  wages & benefits % % % we're proud of the progress  we’ve achieved in the short  time since launching new  hrdd programs, and we  see great opportunity to do  more in partnership with  our suppliers, peers and  other industry players.” bethany fitzgerald, director,  global responsible sourcing,  the hershey companytotal non-compliance issues:  ,  total audits submitted:    	the	sedex 	members	ethical	 trade	audit	(smeta)	 -pillar 	audit	protocol	is	composed	of	four 	modules:	labor 	standards	 (including human rights and forced labor topics), health and safety, environment and business ethics. how we responsibly source goods and services   continued   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report verify suppliers are required to undergo follow-up audits to verify  the closure of non-compliances and the implementation of  an	effective	cap.	supplier 	compliance	increased	to	 %	by 	 the	end	of	 ,	compared	to	 %	at	the	end	of	 .  in	 ,	 we	built	a	dashboard	to	provide	procurement	 and supplier relationship managers with real-time access  to supplier program data, including supplier progress and  performance. our team members consider this information  in	their	sourcing	 decisions	 and	supplier	discussions.	 in	 ,	 this dashboard will be formally integrated into a holistic  supplier scorecard alongside other business metrics.  → read more about our supplier program requirements on  our website.  a responsible supply chain, from end-to-end hershey-owned facilities our commitment to a responsible supply chain applies  equally to the facilities that hershey owns. we conduct  smeta	 -pillar	audits	at	all	hershey-owned	operations.	 in	 ,	 we	moved	from	a	time-based	(i.e.,	every 	three	 years) to a performance-driven cadence, which is triggered  by	smeta	 -pillar	audit	performance	and	required	non- compliance remediation. corrective action plans and  follow-up audits are required if non-compliances are  identified.	 the	most	commonly 	identified	non-compliances	 in hershey-owned operations are in the health and safety  category as seen in the data table. no instances of forced or  child	labor 	were	identified.	in	 ,	 we	will	integrate	dot’s	 and pretzel’s sites into our internal audit program.a resilient, ethical supply chain while most of the ingredients we purchase go directly  into making our beloved snacks and confections, we  also	have	a	significant	supply 	chain	for 	materials	and	 services to support our operations, managed by indirect  procurement. we strive to apply high standards for social  and environmental considerations of these purchases  as well, and have joined the indirect spend alliance to  collaborate with industry on the development of common  risk management frameworks. additionally, we promote supplier diversity as described in  more	pathways	to	 join	on	pages	 - . what’s next • continue working with suppliers to develop long- term corrective actions by providing targeted capacity  building, particularly around indicators of forced labor  and health and safety • integrate dot’s and pretzels-owned operations, labor  agencies and suppliers into our responsible sourcing  due diligence	programs	 • update our supplier code of conduct and supplier  program guidebook  • in partnership with the indirect spend alliance, test  and assess due diligence assessments and programs for  indirect supplier categories, including waste, recycling,  logistics and distribution❶ acknowledge all suppliers enrolled in the supplier  program formally acknowledge our  supplier code on an annual basis. ❷ assess suppliers complete  saqs on an annual basis  which allows hershey to  understand our suppliers’  business practices and  areas for improvement  that may require follow-up  prior to an on-site audit. ❹ remediate when instances of  non-compliance are  identiﬁed, hershey  require suppliers to  develop corrective action  plans (cap) that include  addressing the root  cause of the issues  and remediating the  non-compliance.❺ verify suppliers are required to  undergo follow-up audits  to verify the closure of  non-compliances and  the implementation of  an eﬀective cap. ❸ audit we use independent  third-party veriﬁcation  tools, including  smeta  -pillar audits,  to monitor compliance  and proactively identify  opportunities for future  due diligence.our responsible supplier program supplier code of conduct acknowledgment self-assessm entquestionnaire on-site audit supplier action plansupplier correctivefollow-up on-site auditbuilding supplier capacity   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report hershey actively works to  responsibly source priority raw  ingredients and materials for  our delicious snacks. this map  highlights many of the origin  countries from where we source  several of these resources.sourcing our priority  ingredients and materials     new   zealand  • dairymala ysia    indonesi a  • cocoa  • palm oilmexico  • cocoa   • sugar  brazil  • cocoa   • pulp and paper   • sugarghan a  • cocoa nigeria  • cocoa came roon  • cocoacôte   d’ivoire   • cocoawhere we source o ur ingre dients u.s. • dairy • eggs  • pulp and paper • sugar ecuado r  • cocoaphilippines   • coconut     • palm oilcoconut* eggs* sugarpulp and  papercocoa dairy palm oil *  coconut and eggs are not listed in hershey’s esg report as key ingredients and materials. they are  included on this map because hershey has public commitments related to sourcing both ingredients.   responsible	sourcing	ingredient	commitments	and	progress	may 	be	found	on	page	 . material esg issue: - farmer livelihoods - human rights (supply chain) -  business operations and supply  chain resilience - responsible sourcing-  ghg emissions and climate  change - deforestation - biodiversity   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report we’re promoting sustainable, resilient  agricultural communities that can  thrive. hershey	strategically 	prioritizes our 	key	ingredients	and	 materials (cocoa, dairy, sugar, palm oil, and pulp and paper  packaging)	so	 we	can	target	our 	efforts	on	those	areas	 where we can make the biggest impact while reducing  risks in our supply chain. we aim to address both social  and environmental challenges in the communities and  ecosystems from which we source our priority ingredients  and materials. our plan and approach for each ingredient  considers	a	number 	of our	material	esg	topics,	including	 human rights, farmer livelihoods, ghg emissions,  deforestation, biodiversity, water and soil health, as these  are often interrelated issues.  our priority ingredient management strategies are  underpinned by the following principles, which we updated  in	 .	 • supply chain traceability : know the origin of raw  materials to improve visibility into our supply chains and  understand opportunities for impact • supply chain monitoring and verification:  communicate our expectations to suppliers and  strengthen their sustainability management by using  third-party 	certification	and	 verification	schemes	to	 monitor performance and drive continuous improvement • origin transformation: create measurable, responsible  and sustainable transformation by investing in origin-level  programs focused on environmental, social and economic  issues  • operational excellence: utilize internal processes,  policies, training, data, technology and purchasing  practices supported by governance• external engagement: collaborate with e xternal  stakeholders to drive systemic change, as companies  cannot solve these complex sustainability challenges  alone → for a summary of our responsible sourcing ingredient data, see  page  . risk assessment refresh in	 ,	 we	refreshed	our 	risk	assessment	to	confirm	 our priority ingredients and materials and to account for  changes in our supply chain, including the acquisitions of  dot’s, pretzels and lily’s. we also considered developments  in our human rights and environmental strategies, such  as the intersection with nature and water and changes  in sustainability risks. we reviewed current human rights  data from sources including the freedom house political  freedom index, the u.s. department of labor reports  on forced and child labor and others to update country  risk scores, and updated human rights risk scores for  our ingredients by country supply chain. we updated  environmental	risk 	scores	based	on	scope	 	ghg	 emissions, and water quality and scarcity risk scores.  what’s next •  advance our strategies and make investments that  mitigate human rights and environmental risks as relevant  for all priority ingredients and materials • use insights from our refreshed risk assessment to  research opportunities to engage with industry and  make greater 	impactour priority ingredients and materials our priority ingredients and materials include cocoa, dairy,  sugar, palm oil, and pulp and paper packaging. cocoa  remains hershey’s highest priority ingredient. for more  details,	see	our 	cocoa	chapter 	which	begins	on	page	 .	 dairy during the second year of our responsible  sourcing strategy for dairy , we continued to  focus	on	two	areas:	 )	ensuring	dairy 	supplier 	 compliance with our sustainability policies and promoting  continuous	improvement	and	 )	expanding	field-level	 projects focused on ghg emissions reduction and  water quality.	 ensuring compliance our involvement in the sustainable dairy partnership (sdp)  is foundational to our interactions with our dairy suppliers.  the sdp is a holistic management system standard  and	assurance	model	 with	third-party 	data	verification	 and progress reporting. sdp also includes sustainability  requirements that must be met by dairy processors and  supplying farms. we encourage our dairy suppliers to  enroll in, undergo evaluation through and submit progress  reports to us via the sdp. we have committed to sourcing   %	of	our 	dairy	volumes	from	suppliers	enrolled	in	and	 assessed	through	the	sdp 	by	 .	at	the	end	of	 ,	  %	of	our 	volumes	 were	sourced	from	such	suppliers.	 we actively advance the mission of the sdp, as a member  of the hershey responsible sourcing team serves on the  sdp steering committee. through this initiative, we also  collaborate with other industry members, jointly tackling  collective challenges such as ghg accounting and  reporting, animal welfare, and regenerative agriculture in  the dairy industry.   	traceability is not a chain of custody concept and does not alone allow hershey to identify  the	specific	source	from	 where	the	ingredient	comes	in	a	given	hershey 	product.	climate-friendly farms in	 ,	 we	continued	to	collaborate	 with	land	o’lakes,	 our highest-volume dairy supplier and strategic partner,  and the alliance for the chesapeake bay on our three-year  pilot program, sustainable dairy pa. now in its second  year, this program aims to reduce ghg emissions and  protect water quality across dairy farms in our pennsylvania  supply chain. hershey is providing funding to support the  implementation	of	riparian	forest	buffers	and	other 	efforts	 to enhance conservation on our supplying farms. our work  in	 	included	planting	 	acres	of	riparian	buffer 	—	that’s	 over	 , 	trees	—	and	almost	a	mile	of	stream	coverage	 and fencing, among other projects. this will prevent over   , 	pounds	of	sediment,	 	pounds	of	phosphorous	 and	almost	 , 	pounds	of	nitrogen	from	entering	 waterways feeding the chesapeake bay annually. these  field-level	projects	are	also	helping	sequester 	 	metric	 tons of co e per year. in addition, in partnership with two  other suppliers, we began piloting a methane-reducing  feed additive on some of our supplying farms to further  reduce ghg emissions. our work through sustainable dairy pa and in collaboration  with our other dairy suppliers can create a more climate  resilient supply for the milk we source.  → learn more in acting on climate change on pages  - .   % of our volumes were  sourced from suppliers  enrolled in and assessed  through the sustainable  dairy programsourcing our priority ingredients and materials   continued case study improving soil health  for sugar beets healthy soil is the foundation of productive, sustainable  agriculture. we have introduced two programs that help  sugar beet producers manage soil health to reduce erosion,  maximize	 water	infiltration,	save	money 	on	inputs,	and	 ultimately improve the resiliency of their working land. in   ,	we	launched	a	pilot	project	 with	a	sugar 	supplier,	 united sugars, the soil and water outcomes fund,  and three other peer brands and customers to provide  financial	incentives	and	technical	assistance	to	some	of	our 	 sugar beet farmers to transition to on-farm regenerative  agricultural practices such as no or reduced tillage, cover  crops,	and	extended	crop	rotations.	in	the	first	 year	of	 the	program,	 , 	acres	 were	enrolled,	 with	projected	 benefits	of	sequestering	about	 , 	metric	tonnes	of	soil	 organic	carbon,	and	preventing	over 	 	tons	of	sediment,	  , 	pounds	of	phosphorous	and	 , 	pounds	of	 nitrogen from entering waterways.  we also joined a coalition of food and beverage companies  in launching the trusted advisor partnership in north  dakota, where the majority of our beet sugar is grown and  where	wind	and	 water	erosion	have	stripped	 %	of	topsoil	 in some areas. the trusted advisor partnership program  is	training	a	network 	of	certified	crop	 advisors	 versed	in	 the latest science on soil health systems who can advise  and advocate for regenerative agriculture practices among  sugar beet producers in that state. learn to grow farmer programs hershey continues to partner with our supplier american  sugar	refining	to	implement	learn	to	grow 	field	school	 programs in belize and mexico. participating farmers  learn to implement more sustainable growing practices to  holistically address environmental and social issues. by the  end	of	 : • our	program	in	mexico	reached	approximately 	 , 	 farmers	and	 , 	cane	cutters.	participants	improved	 cane	quality 	by	 %	through	reducing	extraneous	matter 	 and earned higher incomes. during activities, harvesting  group leaders were trained in health and safety practices  for cane cutters and prevention of child labor.  • in belize, our program helps farmers adapt to climate  change by using weather forecasting and pest prediction  technology. they also learn best management practices  such as environmentally-friendly biological pest control  techniques.	more	than	 , 	farmers	have	been	trained	 in and adopted the new technology platform. youth  tech coaches from the communities were integrated to  cross-train farmers on the available technology. these  farmers have applied biological pest controls to over   , 	acres,	avoiding	nearly 	 , 	kg	of	traditional	 pest control chemicals. early intervention also helped  to prevent further infestation and avoid application of  additional	chemicals.	farmers	realized	significant	savings	 by avoiding pesticide costs and production losses. in  addition, the first women farmers’ field school has been  established.	 the	first	cohort	completed	an	eight-module	 cane cultivation program integrated with agronomic  techniques,	financial	literacy 	and	health	and	safety 	 measures for workers.sugar  we focused on increasing traceability and  sustainable growing practices in our sugar  supply chain.  traceability in	 ,	 we	continued	 working	 with	our	suppliers	to	trace	 our sugar to the mill level to understand if it is linked to  areas or mills with concerns such as deforestation, water  pollution	or 	the	exploitation	of	 workers.	for 	the	year	 ,	  %	of	the	sugar 	we	purchased	 was	traceable	to	the	mill,	 and we expect a similar percentage of our volumes to be  traceable	for 	 	when	the	data	becomes	available. to gain information on the sustainability performance of  the mills and farms in our sugar supply chain, we continued  to	use	credible	third-party 	standards	and	 verification	 mechanisms, including the bonsucro and fairtrade  usa	certifications.	in	 ,	 we	sourced	 %	of	our 	sugar	 volumes	from	farms	certified	by 	or	verified	to	a	recognized	 sustainability standard or covered by bonsucro credits. this  puts	us	on	track 	to	procure	 %	of	our 	sugar	from	certified	 or	verified	sources	farms	by 	 .	for 	more	information,	 visit our sugar sourcing webpage. sustainable growing practices in	 ,	 we	also	completed	a	baseline	assessment	of	 our suppliers' sustainability and responsible sourcing  practices and	management	systems.	 the	results	are	helping	 us identify potential risks and opportunities and create  action plans to drive improvement through training and  investment.sourcing our priority ingredients and materials   continued   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report sourcing our priority ingredients and materials   continued   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report regenerative  agriculture  the	practice	of	regenerative	agriculture	offers	 exciting and multi-faceted opportunities to  achieve greater progress on a number of our  most material issues. at hershey, regenerative  agriculture includes farming practices that restore  soil and ecosystem health, and leaves our land,  waters, and climate in better shape for future  generations. we are introducing practices such as  reduced tillage and cover cropping, which have  benefits	for 	soil	health,	carbon	sequestration,	 water stewardship and biodiversity, as well as  farmer livelihoods. while regenerative agriculture  concepts are already being addressed to varying  degrees in our management plans for each priority  ingredient,	 we	are	evaluating	the	benefits	of	 expanding the integration of these principles. case study pulp and paper  pulp and paper  is integral to hershey’s business.  we use it as food packaging, wrapping,  transportation and marketing for our well-loved  brands.	following	our 	 	commitment	to	responsibly 	 source	virgin	fibers	and	recyclable	materials	for 	our	u.s.	 and	canada	operations,	 we	achieved	that	goal	in	 	by 	 obtaining	 %	of	the	pulp	and	paper 	sourced	for 	products	 from	recycled	material	or 	certified	mills.	 we	have	expanded	 that	ambition	and	are	now 	working	to	source	 %	of	 our	pulp	and	paper 	packaging	from	recycled	or 	certified	 sources	globally 	by	 .	this	begins	 with	understanding	 all of our current sources for these materials. through our  collaboration with earthworm foundation, we are now  gathering information on mill level data for our recycled and  virgin	fiber 	supply	chains	and	country 	of	harvest	data	for 	 the	virgin	fiber 	we	source;	and	are	analyzing	our 	exposure	to	 deforestation, forest degradation and social conflicts. we are guided by our responsible pulp & paper sourcing  policy,	which	we	updated	in	 	to	reflect	this	expanded	 commitment. to provide transparency, we continue to  publish our list of pulp and paper suppliers and mill groups  that supply to our global operations.our first forest footprint in	a	new	step,	we	engaged	the	nonprofit	earthworm  foundation to map our forest footprints for our palm supply  chain in the north sumatra and aceh districts of indonesia,  following the rainforest action network’s methodology.  this analysis enabled us to identify areas of forest, peat and  customary land at risk of palm expansion inside and outside  concessions.	 this	is	part	of	a	larger 	collaborative	effort	 with two other global companies and earthworm. we are  jointly exploring possible actions for civil society and local  community partners to protect the standing forests that  are outside of palm concessions and at risk for commodity  expansion.  through the palm oil collaboration group’s independent  verification	 working	group, we convene with other brands,  traders, producers and ngos. together, we explore the  most	effective	approaches	to	independent	 verification,	 including emerging techniques such as satellite monitoring  of land-use change and real-time collection of information  from workers via mobile apps.  promoting transformation we continue to invest in landscape collective actions  in indonesia and malaysia which are implemented by  earthworm foundation. these on-the-ground programs  focus on the protection and restoration of forests and  biodiversity, smallholder inclusion, respect for human rights,  ndpe capacity building and the resilience and livelihoods  of local palm-growing communities. for more information on our palm oil supplier engagement,  monitoring	and	 verification	 work,	and	landscape	 transformation project investments, visit our palm oil  sourcing webpage.palm oil  hershey is committed to the highest standards  in responsible and sustainable palm oil  sourcing. as stated in our responsible palm  oil sourcing policy , our goals are to source palm oil that is   %	responsibly 	grown	and	 %	traceable	to	the	mill	and	 plantation.	it	must	be	physically 	certified	by 	the	roundtable	 on sustainable palm oil (rspo), and must not contribute  to deforestation or peatland destruction while respecting  and protecting the human rights of individuals and local  communities. we also look to the accountability framework  initiative (afi) guidelines. to achieve our objectives, we  maintain and expand relationships with our suppliers and  key industry partners.  in	 ,	 we	once	again	achieved	our 	 %	rspo	 certification	goal	and	 %	traceability 	goal	to	the	mill	 level.	we	remain	committed	to	achieving	 %	traceability 	 to plantation	level,	reaching	 . %	by 	end	 ,	and	expect	 to accomplish	this	goal	by 	 . we took several actions to verify that our palm oil supply  chain does not contribute to deforestation, while respecting  and protecting human rights. for the second year, we  conducted a deforestation assessment of all our suppliers  using	mill	lists	from	mid-year 	 	to	mid-year 	 ,	 which	verified	 %	of	our 	volume	as	deforestation-free.	 we work closely with all our palm suppliers to investigate  deforestation events. following our palm oil grievance process, we continue to  publicly disclose our palm oil grievance log with monthly  updates on no deforestation, no peat, no exploitation  (ndpe) violations found within our supply chain. as  of	december 	 ,	we	suspended	 	suppliers	in	our 	 upstream supply chain, none of whom supplied us directly,  for ndpe violations. we have not yet granted re-entry to  any	of	these	suppliers.	in	 ,	 we	suspended	five	indirect	 palm oil operations due to allegations of potential negative  environmental and/or social impacts.   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report our progress responsible sourcing and human rights target y earprogress (as of dec.  ,   ) goal status notes  % of priority ingredients and materials to be responsibly and sustainably  sourced (by volume)   % on track    % of in scope supplier sites meet hershey’s responsible sourcing supplier  program requirements   % on track —  	this	result	represents	the	percentage	by 	volume	of	hershey’s	five	priority 	ingredients,	 which	met	our 	definition	of	responsibly 	and	sustainably 	sourced	in	 .	 this	definition	 varies	by 	ingredient	and	is	 subject	to	change	as	hershey’s	responsible	sourcing	programs	evolve.	more	information	may 	be	found	in	the	responsible	sourcing	ingredient	commitments	and	progress	table	on	page	 .goals kpis engagement on human rights unit       notes worker engagement surveys completed # of engagement  surveys    not available — workers and farmers surveyed during worker engagement surveys # of workers and  farmers surveyed ,    not available — hershey employees who have taken human rights training and passed %  %  % not available   hershey employees who have completed human rights training # of employees more than  ,   ,  not available    	this	data	represents	the	human	rights	module	of	our 	code	of	conduct	training,	and	is	required	annually 	for	professional	employees	on	a	rolling	 -month	cycle. kpis   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report responsible recruitment program unit       notes labor agencies enrolled in responsible recruitment program #         labor agency enrollment by hershey site location brazil #       — india #       — malaysia #       — mexico #       — u.s. and canada #       — labor agency enrollment by category contingent labor providers (manufacturing) #       — contract packaging #       — labor service providers #       — progress on responsible recruitment program requirements responsible recruitment and employment policy acknowledgment %	completed  %  %  % — saq %	completed  %  %  %   saq corrective action plan %	completed  %  %  %   saq noncompliances corrected and closed %    % not available    	the	responsible	recruitment	program	applies	to	all	labor 	agencies	that	provide	contingent	labor 	or	labor	services	to	hershey 	owned	and	operated	offices	and	manufacturing	sites.   saq	requests	 were	made	during	the	second	half	of	 .		 two	pending	saq	caps	are	 with	labor 	agencies	and	are	requiring	additional	support	to	complete	and	provide	required	documentation.  	due	to	the	timing	of	our 	 	saq	requests,	none	of	the	identified	non-compliances	 were	corrected	or 	closed	in	 .		 we	are	actively 	engaged	 with	labor 	agencies	 who	have	not	completed	required	documentation. kpis   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report responsible sourcing supplier program (supplier program)       suppliers and manufacturing sites enrolled in supplier program       enrollment of manufacturing sites and audits performed by location# of  manufacturing  sites enrolled and  subject to audit# of audits  performed# of  manufacturing  sites enrolled and  subject to audit# of audits  performed# of  manufacturing  sites enrolled and  subject to audit# of audits  performed africa             brazil             china             europe             india             malaysia             mexico             north america (u.s. and canada)             rest of asia             rest of latin america             enrollment of manufacturing sites and audits performed by supplier category# of  manufacturing  sites enrolled and  subject to audit# of audits  performed# of  manufacturing  sites enrolled and  subject to audit# of audits  performed# of  manufacturing  sites enrolled and  subject to audit# of audits  performed contract manufacturing and contract packaging             ingredients and raw materials             licensing             packaging             the hershey experience, world travel retail and indirect               the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report people demographics at manufacturing sites where audits were conducted (as  documented in the audit reports)       total workers at manufacturing sites  ,   ,   ,  female workers  ,   ,   ,  male workers  ,   ,   ,  domestic and international migrant workers  ,   ,   ,  supplier program audit results unit       audits submitted in reporting year # of audits       non-compliance results total # of non- compliance results ,      non-compliances corrected and closed #       minor non-conformances total	findings %  . %  . %  . % nonconformance rate rate  .   .   .  total	findings	corrected	and	closed %  . %  . %  . % moderate non-conformances total	findings %  . %  . %  . % nonconformance rate rate  .   .   .  total	findings	corrected	and	closed %  . %  . %  . % major non-conformances total	findings %  . %  . %  . % nonconformance rate rate  .   .   .  total	findings	corrected	and	closed %  . %  . %  . % note: at hershey, major nonconformances include issues rated as critical or zero-tolerance issues.kpis kpis   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report   non-compliance issues by category non-compliance issue category (# and  %	of	total	non-compliances) 	child labor &  young workersindicators of  forced laborharassment &  discriminationfreedom of  association  and collective  bargainingwages &  benefits working hourshealth, safety &  hygiene environmentmanagement  systems land rights business ethics   ( %)   ( %)   ( %)   ( %)   ( %)   ( %)   ( %)   ( %)   ( %)   ( . %)   ( %) average	number 	of	non-compliance	issues	per 	audit	(non-compliance	rate	=	number 	of	non-compliance	issues	by 	category 	identified	in	a	location's	 	audit	reports	/	total	#	of	location's	 	audit	reports) africa  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  brazil  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  china  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  europe  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  india  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  malaysia  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  mexico  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  north america  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  rest of asia  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  rest of latin america  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  kpis   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report responsible sourcing ingredient commitments & progress ingredient commitment goal       notes total food ingredients percentage	of	food	ingredients	sourced	(by 	cost)	certified	to	third-party 	 environmental and/or social standards (e.g., fair trade usa, rainforest alliance,  rspo and bonsucro)n/a  %  %  % — cocoa source	independently 	verified	cocoa	(by 	volume)	through:	fair 	trade	usa,	 rainforest	 alliance	(utz)	and	 verified	supplier 	program	standards	meeting	 international criteria %	by 	 	 achieved %  %  % — sourcing	 visibility	of	hershey's	cocoa	 volume	in	côte	d'ivoire	and	ghana  %	by 	 	 on track %  %  % — dairy source dairy volumes from suppliers enrolled in and assessed through the sdp  %	by 	  on track %  %  % — sugar achieve traceability to the mill (by volume)  %	by 	  on trackdata pending  %  %   procure	sugar 	(by	volume)	from	sources	certified	or 	verified	to	a	recognized	 sustainability standard covering the farm level %	by 	  on track %  %  % — palm sourcing	rspo-certified	material	(by 	volume)  %	by 	  achieved %  %  %   achieve	 %	traceability 	to	the	mill  %	by 	  achieved %  %  . % — achieve traceability to plantation  %	by 	  on track . %  . %  . % — achieve	a	 verified	deforestation-free	palm	supply 	chain  %	by 	  on track %  % not applicable   pulp and paper source	pulp	and	paper 	packaging	(by 	volume)	from	recycled	or 	certified	sources	 globally %	by 	  on track %  . % not applicable   coconut source	certified	coconut	(by 	volume)	through	fair 	trade	usa  %	by 	  achieved %  %  %   eggs source	certified	cage-free	eggs	(by 	volume)	for 	the	u.s.	and	canadian	markets	 from cage-free farms that are in accordance with the american humane  certified	program %	by 	  achieved %  %  % — source	certified	cage-free	eggs	(by 	volume)	globally  %	by 	  no eggs or egg products  were sourced from  international regions in   . no eggs or egg products  were sourced from  international	regions	in	 %    	data	for	 	will	be	published	in	 .   in	 ,	hershey 	sourced	(by 	volume)	 %	as	rspo	segregated	and	 %	as	rspo	mass	balance.		one	percent	 was	covered	by 	rspo	credits	due	to	limited	 volumes	of	certified	palm	kernel	oil.  	the	 	 verified	deforestation-free	palm	supply 	chain	results	are	based	on	mill	lists	from	mid-year 	 	to	mid-year 	 .	volumes	 were	verified	as	deforestation-free	through	 airbus	and	earthworm	foundation’s	starling	satellite.  	data	is	not	available	for 	 	as	 	is	hershey’s	first	 year	of	tracking	and	reporting	this	result.  	in	 ,	hershey 	sourced	a	small	quantity 	of	conventional,	non-certified	coconut	due	to	a	severe	coconut	shortage	related	to	issues	 with	raw	material	sourcing	and	transportation	complications	caused	by 	the	ongoing	pandemic   in	 ,	hershey’s	reached	 %	cage-free	egg	compliance	globally 	–	three	years	ahead	of	our 	original	 	deadline.		 we	will	continue	utilizing	 %	cage-free	eggs	for 	any	potential	product	offerings	regardless	of	market. doing good by the planet is not just about doing  the right thing; it’s good business. climate change, natural resource scarcity and extreme  weather are some of the serious environmental issues that  pose challenges to both society and to hershey, from our  supply chain to our manufacturing facilities. our ability  to become a leading snacking powerhouse rests in part  on our ability to navigate these external factors and take  action to mitigate risks. we face environmental issues that  are vast and complex. they cannot be solved in isolation  and require collective action by governments, businesses,  non-governmental organizations (ngos) and multilateral  organizations. hershey is committed to doing our part to  create positive change, safeguarding our planet and our  business for continued success in the decades to come. from careful stewardship of energy and greenhouse gas  emissions, to reducing our packaging waste and water  stewardship, our goal is to put more goodness inside the  products people love.  environment      contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report acting on climate change   we seek to reduce our emissions and do our part to  meet the	paris	 agreement	adopted	at	the	united	nations	 climate	change	conference	(cop ).	 as	we	look	to	 the future, our climate approach is fully aligned to and  integrated within our company strategy to be a leading  snacking powerhouse. we view climate action as an  imperative for the future of hershey, our customers and  the communities in which we operate. thus, our climate  approach is increasingly integrated into the way we do  business. from how we manage our own facilities and the  way we procure our ingredients to our participation in ghg  reduction alongside external partners, our organization  is aligned and working toward a more sustainable  future, together.  at hershey, we take a thoughtful approach, setting  aggressive but achievable goals, and mapping out a holistic  strategy to get us where we need to be. as we take action,  we monitor and measure our performance, engaging  all levels of the business from our board to the factory  floor, and incorporate input and feedback from externally  interested stakeholders.  hershey is participating in global actions to reduce our  contributions to climate change because we believe in the  need for bold action. through our climate action, we’re  also improving watershed health, promoting biodiversity  habitat, and restoring and protecting soils. the results of our  climate scenario planning have yielded actionable insights,  which we are using to press on toward our goals. → to learn more about our climate scenario planning insights,  read our full   task force on climate-related financial  disclosures (tcfd) report.the challenges of climate  change are growing faster than  ever before. we are continually  working to embed stronger  sustainable business practices  to ensure long-term business  resilience and success. climate strategy our climate strategy is multi-faceted and powered  by two key drivers: reducing our carbon footprint and  understanding and managing our climate risk.  reduce our footprint  we have set ambitious, science-based ghg reduction  goals	to	reduce	our 	absolute	scope	 	and	scope	 	(market- based)	emissions	by 	 %	and	our 	absolute	scope	 	 emissions	by 	 %	by	 	against	a	 	baseline.	our 	 emissions reduction targets have been approved by the  science based targets initiative (sbti) and are consistent  with levels required to meet the most ambitious goals of the  paris agreement. the targets covering emissions from our  operations are aligned with reduction requirements to limit  warming	to	 . °c	globally 	and	prevent	the	 worst	effects	of	 climate change for us and for the planet. to achieve these  goals, we are shifting the way we run our business to reduce  our climate footprint.  in line with our core value of excellence, we chose to adhere  to sbti as a rigorous, external tool for executing part of our  climate	strategy.	independently 	verified,	the	sbti	provides	 clear guidance and helps us map a demonstrable path  toward meaningful reductions in our own operations and  in our	supply	chain,	in	line	 with	what	the	 world	needs.	our   emissions breakdown  we measure our carbon footprint following the  standards of the greenhouse gas (ghg) protocol.  our	scope	 	(owned	or 	controlled	sources)	and	scope	  	(indirect	emissions)	comprise	approximately 	 %	of	 our	total	emissions.	 %	of	our 	total	greenhouse	gas	 (ghg)	emissions	come	from	scope	 	emissions;	in	 particular those related to agricultural ingredients  such as cocoa, dairy and sugar.  hershey’s	 	scope	 	and	scope	 	data	received	 limited assurance by ernst & young (ey) (see pages   - 	for 	our	limited	assurance	statement).	our 	  	scope	 	data	has	been	independently 	verified	 by	quantis	(see	pages	 - 	for 	our	verification	 letter).why it matters the growing frequency and severity of  extreme weather events, plus increased heat  and	water	shortages,	are	affecting	the	lives	 and livelihoods of millions around the world,  including the farmers and communities  who grow the ingredients we depend on.  these climate-related impacts are growing  in their potential to disrupt our operations,  threatening	communities	and influencing	 the cost and availability of our ingredients  and raw materials. within hershey and across  broader society, there is a growing urgency  to mitigate and adapt to these changes. material esg issue: - ghg emissions and climate change - energy management  . %  . % ❶  scope   (owned or controlled sources) ❷   scope   (indirect emissions from   purchased electricity) ❸  scope   (value chain emissions) %   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report progress towards meeting our ghg goal as we work to embed our ghg targets and action plans  into our growing business — we also continue to learn,  adapt and build the foundation for our carbon reduction  journey. building and operationalizing climate action  plans will not be a linear process as we continue to expand  our portfolio and business, navigate new ways of working  and an evolving carbon accounting landscape, as well as  evaluate and implement new programs. in	 ,	 we	experienced	some	regression	in	our 	ghg	 performance	across	all	scopes.	in	scope	 	and	scope	 ,	 we	 moved	from	 %	progress	against	target	in	 	to	 %	 progress	in	 .	in	scope	 ,	 we	moved	from	 %	progress	 towards	our 	target	in	 	to	 %	progress	in	 .	 these	 changes	are	primarily 	attributed	to	significant	company 	 growth (including m&a activity). in addition, during   	we	instituted	methodological	changes	in	carbon	 accounting such as updated emission factors to align with  the latest science. we are continually working to increase  our visibility and accuracy through improved data sources  and	supplier 	relationships.	 as	we	approach	the	five-year 	 mark	of	joining	the	sbti,	 we	are	preparing	for 	our	first	re- baseline	of	our 	ghg	targets,	to	take	place	in	 .	 these	 efforts,	which	have	been	overseen	 via	our	partnership	 with	 quantis, are critical to helping us ensure we have the right  data to inform strategies, invest resources in the highest  impact opportunity areas, and credibly drive progress. due  to the timing of our re-baseline, we show some irregularities  in this year’s esg disclosure compared to our disclosure  in	 .	footnotes	throughout	the	data	tables	are	used	to	 provide transparency on notable variances.  understand and manage risk we undertook preliminary climate scenario planning as a  tool to understand the multi-faceted impacts of climate  change including the intersections with water on our  activities	and	operations.	 we	are	using	the	findings	to	 inform company strategy and planning through mitigation  and adaptation to help ensure our long-term business  resilience and success.  → learn more in managing climate risk on page    and in our   tcfd report.   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report acting on climate change   continued energy efficiency boosting	energy 	efficiency,	particularly 	in	the	use	of	 electricity 	and	natural	gas,	is	a	core	part	of	our 	scope	 	and	 	 emissions reduction plan.  these	efforts	are	managed	by 	our	engineering	and	supply 	 chain functions and are overseen by our new energy and  water management steering committee. this group  sets energy targets, tracks water usage and facilitates  the business integration needed to drive visibility and  accountability for action and results. this involves making  utility data visible and actionable, understanding energy  and water usage patterns, securing capital investments,  and engaging teams in understanding opportunities for  optimization. improving our operational emissions footprint includes  dynamic management, year-on-year improvements, and  using digital and other technologies and capabilities to  support	this.	for 	example,	 we	are	investing	$ 	million	in	 reporting systems that provide real-time utility usage data  for electricity, natural gas and water at each of our facilities  globally. these systems were installed in u.s. facilities in   ,	with	the	remainder 	to	be	installed	in	international	 facilities	during	 .	 we	expect	access	to	real-time	utility 	 usage data will allow us to take actions to reduce our energy  intensity 	by	approximately 	 %	over 	the	next	five	 years	 and uncover additional energy saving opportunities. by  harnessing the power and visibility of data, we are enabling  our employees to tangibly contribute to our goals. we are beginning to incorporate sustainability into our  design	requirements	and	including	energy 	efficiency 	as	 a required consideration in our future choices for new  production lines and equipment change outs. in addition,  we continue our actions to limit and, when possible, remove  carbon-intensive fuels, such as coal, at our facilities. for  example, we transitioned from coal to rice husks as biofuel  within	our 	india	plant	during	 .	to spur further progress and innovation, we participate  in two voluntary national energy programs, u.s. epa's  energy star®  challenge for industry and u.s.  department of energy's better buildings, better plants  program, which provide ideas, inspiration and motivation  for	our	energy	management	efforts.	in	addition,	our 	 partnerships strengthen insights to emerging technologies  and	innovative	strategies.	 as	of	december 	 ,	we	 have improved the energy intensity at our hershey  manufacturing	sites	by 	 . %	compared	to	a	 	baseline.	 for additional details, see the energy consumption data  table	on	page	 .  through these initiatives, we are not only reducing our  energy use and costs, but also recognizing and empowering  our	plant	teams	 who	are	on	the	front	lines	of	these	efforts.	 energy champions at hershey manufacturing locations  around the world rally their teams to help implement  energy and water saving projects, meet conservation goals,  and identify further opportunities for energy and water  reduction	and	efficiency. gaining improvements across our real estate portfolio  management of our real estate portfolio is another avenue  for reducing our internal emissions. we are leaning into  the u.s. green building council® leadership in energy &  environmental design (leed) green building program as a  way to moderate our impact as we grow and as an enabler  of future growth. green building design is a consideration in  all of hershey’s new construction projects. for example, we  aim	to	achieve	leed	certification	at	our 	new	manufacturing	 facility in derry township, pennsylvania, announced in   ;	and	have	already 	achieved	leed	gold®	at	our 	 company headquarters in hershey, pennsylvania, and  green building index gold rating at our plant in malaysia.  → learn more about our manufacturing growth in a bold strategy  for growth on pages  - .reducing ghg emissions  in our operations a plan to manage and reduce our carbon  emissions is embedded in our leading  snacking powerhouse strategy.   emissions performance — scope   and    our goal is to achieve a  % absolute reduction in  scope   and   ghg emissions by   against a    baseline. two main drivers will enable our sbti-aligned  ghg	emission	reduction	goal,	energy 	efficiency 	and	 renewables, that take into account projected growth of  our company. our year-on-year progress will not always be direct and  in	 	we	experienced	some	regression	in	our 	emissions	 performance. the growth of our business as a result of  recent m&a contributed to this regression. we are working  to integrate our new acquisitions into our energy intensity  and water reduction programs. as we continue to grow  our business through future mergers and acquisitions,  we	will	be	an	effective	steward	of	these	new 	assets	as	 we	 integrate our expertise and strategies to meet our carbon  reduction	goals.	 we	are	confident	in	our 	ability	to	deliver 	on	 our long-term plans to reduce emissions, which have been  developed to align with our corporate strategy and growth  plans	over 	the	next	 	 years. we are strengthening our ghg accounting as evidenced  by obtaining limited assurance from ey (see our ey limited  assurance	statement	on	pages	 - ).	moving	to	limited	 assurance led to important cross-functional work between  our global sustainability, internal audit, finance and  legal functions, putting in place the critical foundation  of controls, procedures and impact measurement that is  necessary to meet our ambitious ghg targets and long- term corporate strategy. renewable energy  increasing use of renewable energy is a critical element  in	our	scope	 	reduction	plan.	in	 ,	 we	sourced	 %	 of our electricity consumption from renewable and zero  emission	sources.	 we	announced	a	 -megawatt	power 	 purchase agreement (ppa) with national grid renewables  for the copperhead solar & storage project in falls county,  texas. this utility-scale solar project represents hershey’s  third	ppa 	and	is	scheduled	to	come	online	in	 .	 the	 project	is	expected	to	produce	an	estimated	$ 	million	 in	direct	economic	impact	throughout	its	first	 	 years	of	 operation, including the production of new tax revenue,  on-site operations jobs and the creation of a charitable fund  estimated	at	$ , .	 through	these	ppas,	 we	access	 clean and renewable energy while creating local jobs and  generating	significant	power 	for	the	communities	 where	 they are located. hershey	received	more	than	 , 	renewable	energy 	 credits	(recs)	for 	 .	 we directly source renewable energy for our manufacturing  facilities in canada, brazil and india. our facilities in brazil  and canada obtain energy from hydropower and solar, and  our	facility	in	india	sources	approximately 	 %	solar 	energy.	 we also have zero-emissions credits from nuclear energy,  another	zero-emission	power 	source,	helping	us	fill	the	gap	 until additional solar facilities come online.   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report  nature-based solutions, including  protecting forests and promoting  regenerative agriculture will help to  combat climate change.  our	goal	is	to	achieve	 %	absolute	reduction	in	scope	 	 ghg	emissions	by 	 	against	a	 	baseline.	in	 ,	 we	regressed	in	progress	towards	our 	scope	 	emissions	 goal largely due to an increase in purchased goods and  services.	 to	continue	to	advance	our 	scope	 	goal,	 we	 are	developing	detailed	climate	road	maps	 with	specific,	 measurable and time-bound actions across our largest  emission sources: our cocoa, dairy and sugar supply chains,  and logistics, among others. we’re also identifying and  implementing measures to reduce emissions in other  scope	 	categories.	our 	two	key	levers	are	reducing	land	 use change by eliminating deforestation and reducing  emissions from farms by improving on-farm sustainability.  we	are	excited	about	some	of	the	early 	projects	identified	 to make meaningful reductions in our supply chain, but this  work is still in the design and pilot phases.  understanding the unique footprint of hershey’s supply  chain is critical to building a robust reduction strategy that  can be accurately measured. one of the most important  steps	we	took	in	 	 was	shifting	to	greater 	precision	 in	our	scope	 	emissions	accounting	by 	improving	data	 sources	and	including	more	supplier 	specific	emissions	 factors in dairy commodities.  solving daunting issues such as reducing emissions in a  complex value chain requires collaboration. we continue  to listen to suppliers, partners and climate experts to  understand obstacles and identify the most meaningful  actions to address these challenges. we are prioritizing the most important levers to invest in  by	modeling	the	carbon	reduction	potential	of	identified	 actions. in addition, we assess feasibility through follow- up conversations with farming communities and with  internal stakeholders to ensure alignment with our business  strategy. this process of stakeholder engagement enhances  the quality, success and long-term permanence of  interventions in the value chain where we depend on, and  leverage, coordinated approaches toward shared goals.  we’re still early in our journey; meaningful action takes  time. we know we don't have all the answers, and our work  continues, but are proud of the progress made so far in  scope	 	engagement. deforestation-free ingredients addressing deforestation resulting from land use change  is	a	significant	part	of	our 	climate	action	plans	for 	reducing	 our	scope	 	 value	chain	emissions.	 we	have	committed	to	 eliminating commodity-driven deforestation from our entire  supply	chain	by 	 .	in	cocoa,	 we	will	continue	to	source	 only	 %	independently 	verified	cocoa	and	 work	toward	 our	commitment	to	achieve	 %	sourcing	 visibility	in	côte	 d’ivoire	and	ghana	by 	 .	the	hershey 	company’s	no  deforestation policy  further assists us in achieving this  goal across multiple commodities. we are building long- term relationships with known farmer groups, providing  resources and education on sustainable farming and driving  traceability to halt deforestation. we also engage in multi- stakeholder planning to implement meaningful actions  toward our targets and advancing sustainability within our  value chain.  → learn more in protecting the environment on pages  -  and in  our priority ingredients and materials on pages  - . reducing emissions  in our value chain scope   emissions food waste / waste from operations   . % /  . % fuel & energy-related activities /   business travel, commuting  % /  % co-manufacturing  % packaging  %logistics (upstream   & downstream)  % cocoa  % dairy  %specialty  % palm / soy  % /  % nuts  % sugar  %corn  %  %  of hershey's scope    emissions come  from agriculture*   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report *	totals	shown	do	not	equal	 %	due	to	rounding  farming in harmony with nature hershey is strengthening on-farm sustainability practices  and carbon removal through techniques such as  regenerative agriculture and tree planting. for example,  hershey is conducting a pilot with our largest dairy supplier,  land o’lakes, and the alliance for the chesapeake bay  to make on-farm improvements to reduce emissions  and improve water quality across the chesapeake bay  watershed. many of the sustainable agriculture projects  have	stacked	benefits	by 	promoting	nature’s	nutrient	 and water cycles. we’re exploring additional uses of  regenerative agricultural practices in collaboration with  other partners and suppliers, including pilot projects with  sugar beet farmers in minnesota and north dakota.  → learn more in improving soil health for sugar beets on page  . cocoa climate road map:  a clear path forward cocoa	is	a	key 	element	of	our 	overall	scope	 	reduction	 strategy	and	fundamental	to	achieving	our 	 %	emission	 reduction target. it is critical that we maximize the carbon  sequestration potential of nature by planting trees to  permanently remove high volumes of carbon from the  atmosphere and by protecting forests. hence, our key  drivers for emissions reductions in cocoa are ensuring  deforestation-free sourcing and implementing agroforestry  projects in cocoa-growing communities in our supply chain. we prioritized the development of a cocoa climate  road	map	during	 ,	collaborating	 with	more	than	  	suppliers	and	partners	to	ensure	 we	developed	a	 holistic action plan. in coordination with suppliers, we  have partnered with pur, a global leader in nature-based  solutions,	to	undertake	feasibility 	assessments	in	 	to	 design farmer-centered agroforestry projects with selected  communities	in	côte d’ivoire,	 with	the	aim	to	start	tree	 planting	in	 .	case study our cocoa climate road map  deforestation-free cocoa farm-based carbon removal why it  matterspreserving healthy forests is the single most  important tool to decarbonize our cocoa supply  chain.tree planting at farms is recognized as the best  solution for carbon removal because it mitigates  both potential future and historical impacts of  deforestation. agroforestry has complementary  benefits	such	as	improving	farmer 	livelihoods	and	 building resiliency to climate shocks. our  actionswe’re addressing and reducing direct land use  change through partnerships and supplier programs.we’re engaging in farm-based projects with suppliers  of	our	five	priority 	ingredients	(i.e.,	cocoa,	dairy,	sugar,	 palm oil, and pulp and paper). our climate road  maps	for 	each	ingredient	 will	direct	our 	efforts	toward	 specific	milestones	and	targets.	 learn  moreread	protecting	the	environment	on	pages	 - . read our priority ingredients and materials on  pages  - .	   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report reducing emissions in our value chain   continued our approach to climate  action is about more than  just carbon. it’s about  investing in solutions that  have compounding benefits  to address our generation’s  greatest challenges.” matt silveira, manager,  environmental sustainability, the hershey  company   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report managing climate risk  we	also	identified	transition	risks,	such	as	competition	for,	 and rising costs of, sustainably sourced ingredients, and the  potential implications of a carbon tax. hershey has systems to monitor and respond to acute  climate crises. for longer-term evolving risks, such  as those presented by climate change, we utilize our  enterprise risk management (erm) program. to improve  our understanding of how climate change is, and could,  impact our business, now and in the future, we are  exploring ways to integrate these risk insights into the  business. these conversations have led to a preliminary  determination of the value at risk in dairy sourcing based  on	how	the	risk	could	be	managed.	 we	have	identified	 how climate resiliency overlaps within our sbti strategy  to reduce emissions in dairy and have begun to evaluate  if these actions are enough to address the plausible risk  to dairy supply in the future. we are engaged in ongoing  conversations	to	refine	potential	scenarios	to	assess	supply 	 trajectories, develop mitigation strategies and understand  financial	impacts.	 the water-climate connection our analysis clearly spotlighted the fundamental link  between climate change and water challenges. modeling  showed that physical risks, including extreme temperatures,  drought and water stress, are projected to escalate across  a range of global ghg concentration scenarios during the   s.	tackling	 water	challenges	as	part	of	our 	climate	 strategy is essential as climate change exacerbates risks  to all things that depend on nature (e.g., agriculture),  while healthy ecosystems are key for climate mitigation  and adaptation. our initial water risk and opportunities  assessment helped to identify priority areas as we develop  climate adaptation strategies. we are combining the  insights from our water risk assessment with our climate  scenario	 work.	together,	these	findings	are	helping	us	to	strengthen our mitigation and adaptation strategies, and  enabling us to enhance our business resilience and prepare  for future conditions. for example, at the ingredient level,  we are exploring how we might use the insights gained to  inform our dairy procurement risk management processes.  we’re evaluating the ability of our work with sustainable  dairy pa to create a more climate resilient supply for our  fluid milk sourced from pennsylvania. we are also studying  the impact on our cocoa and almond supply chains and how  investments	identified	in	climate	road	maps	can	help	buffer 	 against climate shocks and improve supply chain resilience.  → to learn more about our climate-related risks and our actions to  address them, read our   tcfd report. what’s next • continue to execute on our sbti goals and build climate  resiliency further into our priority ingredient climate  road maps • implement a work plan with a deforestation monitoring  solutions service provider to monitor, verify and address  deforestation in our forest-risk commodities, i.e., cocoa,  palm, pulp and paper, and soy • continue to review and update our  no deforestation  policy  to stay aligned with best practices and helps us  achieve our goalswe’re preparing for the future by  planning and taking action today.  as a company that depends on agricultural commodities  grown all over the world, we are acutely aware of the risks  that climate change, natural resource scarcity and extreme  weather pose to our business. we have begun to undertake  climate	scenario	planning	to	understand	the	future	financial	 and operational risks that climate change presents to our  organization. we have purposefully chosen to complete  this analysis internally so that we can build our acumen  of	how	this	affects	our 	business.	 we	use	rigorous	external	 tools, such as the climate service (tcs), now a part of  s&p global, which provides a science-backed climate risk  analytics platform to help us identify and measure climate  risk in our assets, business and investment portfolio.  we also worked in partnership with quantis, a leading  sustainability consultancy.	 in	 	we	took	our	first	steps	to	conduct	climate	scenario	 planning, including qualitative and quantitative research,  and completed our initial risk modeling. we plan to build  on these preliminary climate scenario planning activities  to further sharpen our approach in determining the most  effective	climate	change	mitigation	strategies.	 what we learned our	climate	scenario	planning	efforts	have	facilitated	 initial conversations to begin preparing for plausible  climate futures.	 the	most	significant	physical	risks	revealed	by 	our	analysis	 are disruption and uncertainty within our supply chain.  we	can	expect	 )	increases	in	unforeseeable	circumstances	 that	prevent	suppliers	from	timely 	fulfillment	of	contracts	 due to extreme weather events,  ) increases in droughts  impacting	crop	 yields,	and	 )	extreme	 weather	events	such	 as freezes, floods, hurricanes and tornadoes that could  damage or shut down hershey facilities. material esg issue: packaging and end-of-life   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report making progress on packaging we’re eliminating unnecessary  packaging and converting to more eco- friendly alternatives to create a more  sustainable future while keeping the  goodness inside: quality, safety and a  satisfying consumer experience. in order to reduce the potential negative impacts of  plastic	waste	and	 waste	sent	to	landfills,	 we	are	reducing	 unnecessary materials and increasing recyclability across  our packaging portfolio. these actions also help us drive  toward greater packaging circularity.  sustainable packaging requires a holistic approach  that balances safety and quality, consumer needs,  manufacturing and distribution requirements. our priority is  to make sure hershey packaging continues to deliver high- quality and safe, consumable products to our customers. in  addition to increasing our proportion of more sustainable  materials, we are eliminating unnecessary packaging  and ensuring responsible sourcing. these actions play an  important	part	in	reducing	our 	scope	 	ghg	emissions.	 to achieve our goal, over the next several years we will  make	significant	investments	to	qualify 	and	convert	over 	  , 	items	across	all	of	our 	manufacturing	facilities	to	 new packaging with updated labeling that will educate  consumers on its recyclable components. our partnerships  with suppliers and industry trade groups are critical, as they  extend	and	enrich	our 	efforts.	 eliminating pvc we are near completion to eliminating hard-to-recycle  pvc from our global packaging portfolio. as of december   ,	 ,	 we	had	qualified	alternatives	for 	 %	of	the	pvc	 in our packaging supply chain and are nearing full global  conversion to non-pvc alternatives. improving recyclability  we	remain	focused	on	our 	commitment	to	achieve	 %	of	 plastic packaging to be recyclable, reusable or compostable  by	 .	hershey 	syrup	bottles,	syrup	caps	and	other 	 pet	jars	and	pails	comprise	the	 %	of	hershey’s	plastic	 packaging from north american produced products that  we currently consider to be recyclable.  while we continue to make progress against this  commitment, eliminating plastic packaging requires  overcoming several hurdles. these challenges include  limited recycling infrastructure, low consumer engagement  and understanding of recycling, and lack of recyclable  solutions for all applications.  in particular, we are hindered  by	an	insufficient	reliable	supply 	of	food	grade	material	 due to limitations in infrastructure, reclaim, sorting and  processing. as infrastructure is created to recapture and  maintain a predictable supply of food-contact grade  materials, we will consider the best target-setting and  reporting approach. using recycled materials in addition, we continue to drive circularity by using more  recycled materials across our portfolio. one example is  the redesign of our hershey’s chocolate syrup multi- pack carriers,	 which	are	now 	made	from	 %	post- consumer recycled content. this change eliminates  nearly	 , 	pounds	of	 virgin	high-density 	polyethylene	 annually.	in	another 	example,	in	 ,	 we	converted	 additional	cases	to	 %	recycled	corrugate	for 	a	total	of	  	cases	converted.	 these	conversions	drove	significant	 impact	in	 ,	equating	to saving	more	than	 , 	 hours	of	electricity,	more	than	 , 	trees,	nearly 	 . 	 million gallons of water, and a reduction of approximately   , 	metric	tons	of	co 	emissions.eliminating packaging we continue to build on our success in reducing packaging  waste	sent	to	landfills.	 we	achieved	our 	initial	goal	to	 eliminate	 	million	pounds	of	packaging	in	 ,	five	 years ahead of schedule. we have since expanded our  commitment	to	eliminate	an	additional	 	million	pounds	 of	packaging	by 	 ,	and	eliminated	over 	 	million	pounds	 of	material	in	 	alone	by 	eliminating,	redesigning	and	 down-gauging our packaging.  we also redesigned our wheeled-modular merchandising  unit to reduce materials by replacing it with a non-wheeled  model	starting	production	in	 .	 this	design	 will	 reduce	the	usage	of	plastic,	medium	density 	fiberboard,	 steel	and	corrugate.	 the	new 	unit	uses	 %	less	material	 by	weight,	equating	to	a	reduction	of	nearly 	 , 	 pounds annually.	 beyond	consumer 	packaging,	 we’re	finding	 ways	to	 further reduce our secondary, transport and retail display  packaging by 	investing	in	design	solutions	that	improve	 distribution	efficiency 	and	thus	eliminate	extra	trucks	on	 the	road.	 these	packaging	reduction	efforts	are	helping	 hershey mitigate the impact of packaging and packaging  waste	on	our 	overall	scope	 	ghg	emissions.	 what’s next • continue	to	find	 ways	to	eliminate	non-value	 added materials • drive circularity via design choices • strive for transparency and education with  enhanced labeling → for a summary of our packaging data, see page  . we are committed to  driving a sustainable  future through  responsible packaging  choices that protect  our products,  prioritize our planet  and deliver hershey  goodness to our  consumers.” sandra hand, director of packaging,  the hershey company  	recyclable materials: materials that can be collected, separated or otherwise recovered from the waste stream  through established recycling programs for reuse or use in manufacturing or assembling another item. water intensity (l/kg of product produced) water stress scoreoperational water footprint by factory  memphis, tn malaysia robinson, il granby, canada high water intensity high water stress and intensity high water stress low water stress and intensity hazleton, pa west hershey, pa pretzels	inc	–	 lawrence, ks lancaster, pa hershey, pa  st. hyacinthe, canadadots	–	lenexa,	ks dots	–	velva,	nd dots	–	edgerton,	ks pretzels	inc	–	 bluffton,	in stuarts draft, vahershey does not currently have  any factories in the high water  stress	and	intensity 	quadrant.  dots	–	goodyear,	 az pretzels	inc	–	plymouth,	in são roque, brazil el salto, mexico monterrey, mexico mandideep, indiawe manage water use  in our global owned and  leased facilities based  on our understanding of  regional water scarcity.   in	 ,	hershey 	had	a	  %	overall	improvement	 in water intensity.   	water stewardship, united nations global compact.   the methodology for our operational water footprint by factory analysis is  based on the aqueduct water risk atlas and hershey’s internal benchmarking  on	 	 water	intensity.	factories	in	the	high	 water	intensity 	quadrant	are	 above hershey’s median water intensity and are located in very low to low- medium baseline water stress areas. factories in the high water stress and  intensity quadrant are above hershey’s median water intensity and are located  in medium-high to extremely high baseline water stress areas. factories in  the high water stress quadrant are below hershey’s median water intensity  and are located in medium-high to extremely high baseline water stress  areas. factories in the low water stress and intensity quadrant are below  hershey’s median water intensity and are located in very low to low-medium  baseline	 water	stress	areas.	 this	assessment	 was	first	completed	for 	hershey’s	 operational	 water	footprint	in	 .	 the	median	is	based	on	the	 	hershey 	 water intensity baseline.material esg issue: water use salient human rights issue: access to water and sanitation   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the better we understand our water use, the better we are  able to manage those areas where our impact is the most  significant.	our 	stewardship	of	 water	starts	at	home,	as	 we	 gain	insights	into	our 	manufacturing	and	office	footprint	 and use this data to identify the most impactful actions.  taking action on water  across our company, we took broad action on water during   .	we: • established an energy and water management steering  committee and a manufacturing water working group  to	implement	energy 	and	water	efficiency 	management	 plans in our facilities. see reducing ghg emissions in  our	operations	on	page	 . • increased	action	in	 water	efficiency,	especially 	at	our	 international facilities which improved water intensity by   %	compared	to	 . • invested	nearly 	$ . 	million	in	high-efficiency 	equipment	 and adjusted operating procedures to reduce well water  usage at our company headquarters. • investigated our operational footprint and its correlation  with water-stressed areas.water: a precious resource why it matters water insecurity is one of the greatest risks  to global prosperity. an estimated   billion  people currently live in water-stressed  areas. with water demand expected to  outstrip	supply 	by	 %	by	 ,	the	 number of people facing water scarcity will  increase.  access to water and sanitation is  a fundamental human right and strive to  manage our use of this limited resource to  protect supplies of clean water. through  our manufacturing facilities and supply  chain, hershey is dependent on water for  every	product	 we	make. this	challenge	 requires that hershey fully understands and  responsibly manages our use of and impacts  on this critical resource.  raising water awareness • celebrated world water day, with green teams  and facilities leading educational events and  volunteer service projects • hosted an expert water supplier to educate  employees in our monterrey, mexico, facility on the  importance of ground water • engaged youth, in conjunction with the municipality  of el salto, mexico and regional water authorities, in  interactive activities to raise community awareness  about local water challenges and how everyone can  be part of the solutioncreativity in a water crisis in	march	 ,	the	government	in	monterrey,	mexico,	 declared a water crisis due to drought. the resourceful  team in our monterrey facility immediately began work  to identify water reduction opportunities. the plant team  identified	their 	cooling	towers	as	a	major 	source	of	 water	 consumption and found opportunities to recycle the clean  non-contact cooling water back into the cooling towers  that was previously not reused, thus greatly reducing the  plant’s	water	needs.	the	monterrey 	water	crisis	officially 	 ended	in	september 	 .	our 	learnings	through	this	crisis	 highlighted the need for continued water conservation  and management. we are incorporating more sustainable  practices into our everyday plant water consumption.case study   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report water: a precious resource   continued material esg issue: - water use -  business operations and supply chain  resilience   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the water used to create our  products is one of our greatest  opportunities to reduce our  environmental impact.we look across our supply chain at water intensity and  quality, using a data-driven approach to develop our  implementation strategies. among other leading water  frameworks	and	tools,	 we	benefit	from	our 	membership	 in the science based targets network’s (sbtn)  corporate engagement program, which we use as a  tool to understand our opportunities for water reduction  and impact.	 we address water protection through an integrated  environmental approach that is aligned with our business  strategy and maximizes positive impact. we are investing  in	solutions	that	have	multiple	benefits	for 	both	hershey 	 and our stakeholders: they are designed to maintain  our business resiliency while supporting livelihoods and  ecosystems and taking climate action. when we refreshed  our priority ingredients risk assessment, we included water  use to ensure that we consider current risks as our business  evolves. we assessed our water footprint, broken down  into blue water and green water. green water refers to the  rainwater and soil moisture consumed by plants and crops.  blue water refers to the volume of surface water or ground  water consumed by an activity. while hershey calculates  its green water footprint to better understand its impact on  the environment, only the blue water footprint can be easily  controlled and we do our best to reduce the blue water  footprint used in our supply chain. → learn more in risk assessment refresh on page  . identifying water risks we’re fundamentally connecting our climate, nature and  water strategies to optimize resources for a more resilient  supply	chain.	we	completed	the	first	steps	in	our 	water	risk	 assessment	by 	mapping	the	 water	risk	across	our 	top	 	 ingredients.	 this	process	started	in	 ,	 when	we	launched	 a preliminary assessment following the sbtn methodology.  this enabled us to better understand our water footprint  and begin to gather insights on contextual water challenges  across our operations and the value chain. through continued participation in sbtn’s self-guided  pilot,	we’ve	refined	our 	initial	assessments	for 	the	 integration of water quality and quantity awareness across  our	supply	chain.	we	began	to	identify 	and	refine	potential	 priority areas for future ambition to create more sustainable  water systems and help future-proof growth against climate  change. we also took preliminary steps to research some of  the social impacts of water issues, including exploring how  our water footprint could be linked to impacts associated  with access to clean water and sanitation and where  vulnerabilities might exist. we based these decisions on a  comprehensive assessment of water quality in our major  ingredient sourcing regions. we used leading global water  screening tools: aqueduct from the world resources  institute and water risk filter  by the world wildlife fund.  we’re elevating the importance of water in ingredient  sourcing and manufacturing by taking steps to quantify  the impacts and dependencies at our facilities and in our  value chain. with a better understanding of our reliance  and impact on water resources, we can develop a clearer  path for minimizing our water footprint. our actions to  understand and address our water use and risk include: • conducted projects to protect and enhance water  resources in collaboration with sustainable dairy pa. see  dairy, page	 .  • identified	the	 water	risks	and	opportunities	in	our 	priority	 ingredients, including enhanced understanding of  the climate	and	nature/water 	connection.	learn	more	in	 the	water-climate	connection	on	page	 .water stewardship  in our supply chain why it matters climate	change	affects	our 	business	by 	 increasing the frequency of extreme  weather and intensifying water stress.  reduced or erratic rainfall diminishes crop  yields, potentially disrupting our business  continuity 	and	increasing	costs. in	 ,	 approximately  % of	our 	food	ingredients	 were sourced from regions with high or  extremely high baseline water stress.  we	are	 seeking opportunities with our suppliers and  partners to protect supplies of clean water.  % of the company’s water use occurs in    of the   countries from which we  source our products ~ %   of hershey’s global water footprint takes  place in agriculture and packaging    , 	the	methodology 	for	this	calculation	is	based	on	mass	of	 ingredients sourced and the aqueduct water risk atlas and  wwf	water	risk	filter.	this	assessment	 was	first	completed	for 	 hershey’s	food	ingredients	in	 .	   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report water stewardship in our supply chain   continued we leverage the framework for  developing science-based targets   for	nature	as	defined	in	sbtn	to	 manage our blue water (which  is controllable). the blue water  footprint of ingredients is   calculated using water footprint  network statistics. increases in our blue water   footprint are due to higher volumes  of	ingredients	sourced	in	 	  and the addition of dots and pretzels  (wheat). cocoa's blue water footprint  decreased due to less sourcing in  brazil. brazil and nigeria are the only  countries in our portfolio with a blue  water footprint according to the  water footprint network statistics. sugar    , ,  peanuts   , , dairy   , , hershey’s operations   , ,  almonds    , , corn   , , wheat   ,  ,  green water  footprint   water used from  rainwater blue water footprint  water sourced from groundwater   or surface water resources   m cubic meters (total volume)our   blue water withdrawal footprint (cubic meters) soy / cocoa / pecans   ,  /  ,  /  ,  material esg issue: biodiversity   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the health of our business, local  communities we operate in and  the world’s economic systems  all depend on protecting the  health of nature. hershey recognizes that biodiversity plays a critical role  in business success and planetary health. biodiversity  loss presents a major systemic risk to both society and to  hershey. as an agriculturally-based food manufacturer,  our business success depends on natural systems and our  operations impact them. the food sector is also the area  that needs the most improvement in protecting nature .  during our double materiality assessment, biodiversity was  included as an esg material issue, and we are continuing to  educate ourselves by conducting a biodiversity assessment  in	 .	given	the	magnitude	of	this	challenge,	 we	are	 participating in collective solutions and investments with  expert partners to ensure that together, we contribute to  meaningful actions that protect and restore nature. our actions biodiversity is quickly becoming more deeply embedded  within our environmental priorities and is already referenced  in multiple policies, including our environmental policy   and no deforestation policy . hershey’s key requirements  for cocoa include approved crop protection products to  minimize impact on biodiversity — which applies to all cocoa  we source. through ongoing interactions with farmers and  other suppliers, we invest in and work toward protecting  the ecologically important ecosystems where palm oil is  produced, as stated in our responsible palm oil sourcing  policy .  in addition, we manage biodiversity through the standards  and	certifications	 we	use	for 	our	ingredients	and	materials,	 including dairy and sugar. along with our dairy partnership  with the alliance for the chesapeake bay, our two  new regenerative agriculture programs for sugar beet  production	also	have	biodiversity 	benefits.	 → learn more in improving soil health for sugar beets on page  . hershey is working to better understand, mitigate and  take action to protect biodiversity. an initial assessment  showed that hershey-owned manufacturing facilities  and distribution centers are not currently located in  or adjacent to areas of high biodiversity value. we  also	know 	that	within	 	kilometers	of	our 	facilities	in	 brazil, malaysia and mexico, the number of species  and percentage of landscape under protection is much  higher. for a summary of our biodiversity and iucn  red	list	species	data,	see	pages  	and	 .	 to build on this preliminary assessment, we are  conducting	a	biodiversity 	assessment	in	 	to	learn	 and educate ourselves on how to best proceed in  this rapidly evolving area for business. we continue  to participate in the sbtn corporate engagement  program for nature and the gri biodiversity standard.  in addition, we are actively monitoring pending nature  disclosure standards including, but not limited to, the  taskforce on nature-related financial disclosures  (tnfd) and the european union’s sustainability  reporting standards for biodiversity and ecosystems.  we will continue to learn, adapt and collaborate to  enable an agile response to this serious challenge.  what’s next • conduct a biodiversity footprint assessment to  gather insights on impacts, dependencies and  opportunities across our operations and the value  chain and better determine where we can make  the most	difference • expand	our 	reforestation	efforts	globally 	in	areas	 where we source ingredientsthe power — and importance —  of biodiversity   why it matters loss of biodiversity, the vast variety of all  living things on earth, ranks alongside  climate change and extreme weather as one  of the top three most severe risks facing  the world during the next decade.  without	 biodiversity, the healthy ecosystems that  we rely on for the food we eat and the air we  breathe are at risk. a decline in biodiversity  decreases the health and resiliency of the  natural systems that sustain the entire  supply chain of agricultural ingredients  that are essential for every product that  hershey makes. in	accordance	 with	our	 	gri	 content index, and to further support  our understanding of biodiversity-related  impacts, supplemental data tables are found  on pages  - .  	the	global	risks	report	 , world economic forum.   biodiversity: next up on the corporate sustainability docket, novisto.   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report harnessing the power of trees the foundation’s local partners continue to monitor and  maintain the trees to ensure their survival during the trees’  most vulnerable stage of growth. as we approach the  milestone of one million trees planted together, hershey  plans to work with the arbor day foundation to extend  the partnership internationally to tropical forest projects  in  . in	 ,	hershey 	marked	the	 th	 year	supporting	 the chesapeake bay foundation’s (cbf) educational  programs, which teach thousands of students about the  health of the chesapeake bay. in addition to providing  funding, we hosted cbf students in hershey for an  outreach	event	in	 .	 we	also	support	cbf’s	keystone   	million	 trees	partnership and its pennsylvania rivers  & streams environmental education program. through  these partnerships, our funding helped plant nearly   , 	trees	and	engage	over 	 	youth	participants	in	  	alone.	 we’re	proud	that	 we	were	able	to	contribute	 to	the keystone	 	million	 trees	partnership	planting	 its  	millionth	tree	in	october 	 	in	shippensburg,	 pennsylvania,	alongside	staff	from	the	 arbor	day	 foundation. the power — and importance — of biodiversity   continued case study research shows that planting trees and restoring  forest habitat provides a multitude of environmental  and	economic	benefits	to	our 	communities,	to	future	 generations and to our business. healthy forests have  profound impacts on soil health, biodiversity, water  use	and carbon	reduction.	each	of	these	topics	is	a	 material	esg issue	for 	hershey.	 we	engage	in	two major 	 tree-planting partnerships	as	part	of	our 	investment	in	 reforestation efforts. since	 ,	hershey 	has	partnered	 with	the	 arbor day  foundation to restore forest habitat across the u.s. as a  founding member of the evergreen alliance, an invite- only group of their most innovative and engaged corporate  partners,	hershey 	has	had	a	significant	impact	on	 america’s	 forests	and	on	the	foundation’s	ability 	to	fulfill	its	mission	 to inspire people to plant, nurture and celebrate trees.  through	the	end	of	 ,	 we	have	partnered	to	plant	nearly 	  , 	trees	and	restore	more	than	 , 	acres	of	land	 in	forests	of	greatest	need	across	 	states	through	large- scale	reforestation	projects.	in	 	alone,	 we	planted	over 	  , 	trees	and	restored	nearly 	 	acres	of	forests’	 habitat.  following the completion of each planting project,  there is not a person alive  who should not plant a tree  — not for the shade that  you’ll enjoy, but for those  who are coming after.” milton hershey  	prior arbor day foundation cumulative tree data was misreported from the arbor day foundation  to hershey. it has been restated on this page and in the data table on page  . repurposing waste in  manufacturing  by applying the hershey lean concept, an enterprise  initiative focused on improving operations across all  manufacturing	locations,	specifically 	to	operation	 waste,	our 	malaysia	facility 	green	team	identified	 and implemented three zero-cost projects. together,  these	changes	are	eliminating	 , 	pounds	of	 waste,	reducing	material	sent	to	landfill	and lowering	 costs. in one project, team members found a way  to convert almond waste that had been treated as  landfill	waste	to	be	beneficially 	used	in	agriculture.	 this not only reduces waste, but also eliminates  transportation costs and carbon emissions. helping people and the planet:  community engagement  a used cooking oil collection program at our brazil  plant	has	a	double	pay-off	 with	both	social	and	 environmental	benefits.	 the	instituto	de	educação	 socioambiental school transforms all oil donated  by our employees into soap at its ecological soap  factory, which provides employment for several  families. all proceeds are used to help children  through the local center of guidance and social  education.material esg issue: packaging and end-of-life   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report innovating waste solutions   by viewing waste as a resource that has  value, we’re finding new ways to reduce,  reuse and recycle our waste. in  ,  we achieved a company-wide waste  recycling rate of  %. at hershey, we strive to practice good environmental  stewardship. natural resources are limited, and poor  waste	management	can	aggravate	this	dilemma. failure	 to capture the value of end-of-life-cycle materials results  in consuming raw materials, expending energy and  generating pollution to create new products. furthermore,  irresponsible disposal can contribute to climate change  and	air	pollution,	and	directly 	affects	many 	ecosystems	 and	species.	 at	hershey,	 we	strive	to	take	a	different	 view	 of the by-products from our operations — not as waste  but as potentially valuable resources to be directed away  from	landfills	and	put	to	productive	use.	employees	seek 	 out	new and	innovative ways	to	reduce,	reuse	and	recycle	 materials, often	finding	local	partners	for 	whom	these	 resource streams	are	beneficial,	thus	contributing	to	a	 circular economy. when	we	encounter 	a	new	waste	stream,	hershey 	identifies	 the	most	beneficial	use	by 	evaluating	the	item	according	to	 a waste hierarchy process. starting with prevention, the best  way	to	manage	 waste	is	to	produce	less	in	the	first	place.	 at the enterprise and site levels, teams are reducing waste  by conducting audits, implementing better processes and  increasing employee awareness of workplace waste. if a waste stream cannot be prevented, we explore  opportunities for reuse and recycling. for example, the  majority of unusable product from our manufacturing  facilities in pennsylvania and beyond are sent to local  processing facilities as an organic input used in the  agricultural sector. if the material cannot be recycled,  we look for ways to extract value, such as through waste- to-energy solutions. our plant in monterrey, mexico,  diverts some non-recyclable waste to a nearby cement  manufacturing facility, which uses it as a substitute for fossil  fuels. this practice reduces co  emissions for the cement  manufacturer and contributes to a circular economy. we  also seek to reduce waste through responsible procurement  practices, such as purchasing items with recycled content  and reduced packaging. waste management strategies are implemented at  each location by our environmental health and safety  (ehs) personnel who ensure adherence to our waste  management policy. we harness the energy and  enthusiasm	of	our 	 	green	 teams	worldwide	to	help	drive	 waste	reduction	at	our 	manufacturing	and	office	sites. what’s next • gather additional detailed insights and analytics about  our waste streams to identify areas of opportunity in the  spirit of continuous improvement → for a summary of our waste management data, see page  .    the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report environmental  partnerships hershey partners with global and  local environmental organizations  to drive impact by reducing our  environmental impact. we consider these partnerships to be of key importance.  they bring essential insights and help us to reduce our  environmental impact, make improvements in the quality  of	land	and	 water	around	our 	operations,	and	benefit	local	 communities. furthermore, collaborations with others in  sustainability 	partnerships	is	the	focus	of	goal	 	of	the	 united nations sustainable development goals. at right,  we highlight several of our most influential partnerships,  spanning the environmental spectrum including  atmospheric emissions, impacts on water, land and  biodiversity.chesapeake bay foundation (cbf) -  with	over 	 	years	of	partnership,	hershey 	 is	a	founder 	of	the	keystone	 	million	 trees	 campaign in addition to youth environmental  education	efforts.	 horn farm center - a hub for agricultural  education, the horn farm center fosters  learning through ecological stewardship,  experiential education and community  partnership. lebanon county conservation district  (lccd ) - part of the county government,  lccd addresses local, natural resource  concerns at a county level by providing  technical assistance and education. urban roots farm - a community-shared  agricultural resource and community- supported agriculture farm that grows organic  food for our community. hershey community garden - founded  by the hershey company, penn state health  milton s. hershey medical center, and  hershey entertainment & resorts company,  the garden provides fresh produce for local  food banks and health and environmental  education programs for community members.alliance for the chesapeake bay -  hershey works with the alliance for  the chesapeake bay to make on-farm  improvements to reduce emissions and  improve waterways in the pennsylvania  region. arbor day foundation - hershey engages  the arbor day foundation to identify and  execute large-scale tree planting projects to  reduce emissions and promote biodiversity.  hershey is a founding member of the  evergreen alliance, an invite-only group  of the foundation’s most innovative and  engaged corporate partners. pur - a global leader in nature-based  solutions, pur works with farmers to develop  impactful, community-run regenerative  and sustainable agriculture models, also  enhancing livelihoods and conservation  activities. soil and water outcomes fund -  this	fund	provides	financial	incentives	 directly to farmers who transition to on- farm conservation practices that yield  positive environmental outcomes such as  carbon sequestration and water quality  improvements.science based targets network -  sbtn helps hershey in setting science- based targets to reduce corporate impact  on biodiversity, land, freshwater and the  ocean. world resources institute - as a  global environmental and development  organization, hershey is part of their  corporate consultative group where we  have access to consultation, networking,  and interactive workshops. ceres  - as a member of the ceres  company network, ceres provides  hershey access to peer connections,  emerging sustainability priorities and  consulting expertise. , + people, including over  ,  youth,  participated in environmental education  opportunities to raise environmental  awareness, engage in problem  solving, and take action to improve the  environment through these partnerships.global networks  and nonprofitscommunity partnersproject  implementation  partners our green team mission  educate: spread awareness of hershey’s  sustainability initiatives and challenges and share  best practices.	 engage: foster feelings of inclusion and ownership  in creating hershey’s sustainability future and build  grassroots support and momentum. activate: harness employee passion and energy to  identify and implement improvements to tangibly  impact hershey’s sustainability. the green team gives me  the opportunity to be part of  big change in sustainability  with the people at hershey  monterrey and with the  community. i am sure that  we as a network can  continue to give goodness  back into this world.”  reyna cristina martinez, hershey  monterrey green team member   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report employees acting for change the passionate people on hershey’s  green teams are activating our  workforce to help better manage our  resources and protect the planet. achieving hershey’s environmental goals and  commitments requires action from employees across our  enterprise. our green teams are the front lines of this  action.	making	a	difference	has	always	been	a	core	 value	 at hershey. these employees are bringing that value to life  through their personal involvement in the workplace as  volunteers, and by making business decisions and taking  actions that advance sustainability and social impact. environmental stewardship our green teams represent a group of passionate  employees from all parts of the organization and locations  around the world. they come together out of a shared  interest in reducing negative environmental impacts  at hershey and in the communities where we operate.  hershey	launched	our 	first	green	 team	on	earth	day 	  .	at	the	end	of	 ,	there	 were	 	active	green	 team	 chapters	involving	more	than	 	people	around	the	 world.	 green teams are a grassroots initiative that promotes  a culture of sustainability through educating, engaging  and activating employees, all contributing positively  to our esg goals at every level of the business. green  teams	are a	catalyst	for 	transforming	hershey 	into	a	more	 sustainable organization	from	the	inside	out. growing greener to capture and replicate the innovation and  accomplishments of green teams, we launched a best  practice sharing tool for our global facilities. this repository  promotes idea sharing and provides recognition for  successful solutions implemented by hershey colleagues.  for example, the são roque green team replaced their  lpg	forklifts with	electric	forklifts.	by 	eliminating	the	use	 of propane gas, the são roque plant reduced its co  emissions	by 	 	tons	in	 	months.	in	addition	to	cleaner 	air,	 the employees appreciate a quieter workplace due to the  elimination of noise pollution from the previous forklifts.  success stories such as this help motivate and inspire other  plants to engage in similar changes.  celebrating excellence in	 	we	introduced	a	green	 teams	awards	program	to	 celebrate and commend best practices and projects that  best demonstrate our green teams pillars of educate,  engage, and activate. through this healthy competition,  we showcase projects from the past year and share actions  other	green	teams	can	replicate.	one	finalist	project	 included a world water day celebration in which the  malaysia green team members began a competition  to reduce household water bills. in são roque, facility  members and students from community schools engaged  in an educational workshop to discuss the importance  of water management and protection in context of the  regional	 water	basin.	additional	finalist	projects	engaged	 hundreds of students in environmental workshops, such as  the são roque facility’s good to give back month event,  during	which	 	students	planted	almost	 	trees. cleaning up plastic recycling plastic covers three of our facilities in brazil help raise funds for local  schools by collecting and recycling bottle caps through the  tampinha legal project, one of the largest latin american  socio-environmental education programs in the plastic  industry.	caps	and	covers	of	all	kinds	are	collected	in	 	 repurposed food drums, painted and adapted by volunteers  to promote sorting by color and proper collection in the  schools involved.the perils of single use plastic our malaysia plant green team educated students at the  taman daya school about the importance of sustainability  and avoiding single-use plastics. team members presented  students with a reusable hershey stainless steel drinking  bottle as a substitute for plastic bottles and explained why  it’s better for their health and the environment.  what’s next • lead programming in energy, waste and water to raise  employee awareness and engagement • advance waste reduction at hershey global headquarters • with	the	help	of	our 	partners,	reach	a	total	of	 	million	 total trees planted   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report our progress environment target y earprogress (as of dec.  ,   ) goal status notes  % absolute	reduction	in	scope	 	and	 	ghg	emissions	against	a	 	baseline    % on track    % absolute	reduction	in	scope	 	ghg	emissions	against	a	 	baseline    % in progress    %  of plastic packaging to be recyclable, reusable or compostable    % on track     million pounds  of packaging to be eliminated    .  million  poundson track    	hershey's	ghg	emissions	reduction	goal	for 	 	is	based	on	scope	 	and	scope	 	(market-based).	our 	 	scope	 	and	scope	 	data	received	limited	assurance	by 	ey.   our	 	scope	 	data	is	 verified	by 	quantis.		in	 ,	 we	will	be	undertaking	a	rebaselining	for 	our	scope	 	emissions.  	the progress for this commitment currently represents hershey north american produced products only (e.g., u.s., canada, monterrey (mexico), and all export items from these countries) that are recyclable.  	in	 ,	we	expanded	our 	commitment	to	eliminate	an	additional	 	million	pounds	of	packaging	by 	 .	results	represent	cumulative	packaging	 waste	eliminated	( - ).goals kpis   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report ghg emissions unit       notes direct	(scope	 )	emissions mtco e  ,   ,   ,    change	in	scope	 	emissions	(against	a	 	baseline) %	 - . % - . % - . % — indirect (scope  ): market-based emissions mtco e  ,   ,   ,    change	in	scope	 :	market-based	emissions	(against	a	 	baseline) % - . % - . % - . % — value	chain	(scope	 )	emissions mtco e  , ,   , ,   , ,    change	in	scope	 	emissions	(against	a	 	baseline) % - . % - . % - . % — total ghg footprint mtco e  , ,   , ,   , ,    indirect (scope  ): location-based emissions mtco e  ,   ,   ,    biogenic carbon dioxide emissions mtco e  ,   ,   ,     	hershey’s	 	scope	 	data	received	limited	assurance	by 	ey	and	the	corresponding	limited	assurance	statement	is	found	on	pages	 - .   hershey’s	 	scope	 	data	received	limited	assurance	by 	ey	and	the	corresponding	limited	assurance	statement	is	found	on	pages	 - .  	hershey's	 	scope	 	data	has	been	independently 	verified	by 	quantis	and	the	corresponding	data	 verification	letter 	is	found	on	pages	 - .  	our	 	total	ghg	footprint	is	considered	accurate	given	scope	 	and	scope	 	(market-based)	data	has	received	limited	assurance	by 	ey	(see	pages	 - )	and	our 	scope	 	data	has	been	 verified	by 	quantis	(see	pages	 - ).  	this	metric	includes	carbon	emission	from	biofuel,	such	as	biomass	and	biogas,	for 	energy	production.		hershey 	transitioned	from	coal	to	rice	husks	as	biofuel	 within	our 	india	plant	during	 . scope hershey's	 	ghg	emissions	data	includes	all	brands	in	hershey’s	portfolio,	including	 amplify,	one	brands,	lily's,	dot's	and	pretzels.		 hershey’s	 	and	 	ghg	emissions	data	excludes	one	brands,	lily's,	dot's	and	pretzels. methodology hershey’s	total	ghg	footprint	is	calculated	based	on	scope	 ,	scope	 	(market-based)	and	scope	 	emissions. scope	 	includes	natural	gas,	coal,	oil	#	 ,	oil	# ,	gasoline,	jet	fuel,	propane,	refrigerants,	and	biogenic	emissions	for 	ch  and n o.  gases included in the reporting boundary are co , ch , n o, hfcs, and pfcs. the majority of the reported co e  emissions are from co  with the remainder being composed of ch , n o, hfcs, and pfcs, noting that these and other greenhouse gases are not material to hershey's emissions.  scope   indirect emissions includes the following gases: co , ch , and n o in the reporting boundary. the majority of the reported co e emissions are from co  with the remainder being composed of ch 	and n o, noting that hfcs, pfcs, sf   and nf  are not material to hershey's emissions. totals	may 	not	equal	 %,	due	to	rounding. all	calculations	include	relevant	ghg	emissions	as	specified	by 	the	greenhouse	gas	reporting	protocol	and	follows	the	operational	control	methodology.	 emission factor sources include:  • scope	 :	ecoinvent	and	defra.		operational	control.		 • scope  : epa emissions & generation resource integrated database (egrid), green-e® energy residual mix emissions rate and the emission rates of our electricity providers.  the green-e residual mix emission factor emission factors  applied	to	electricity 	consumption	in	the	u.s.	is	an	adjusted	grid-average	emission	factor 	that	accounts	for 	all	unique	green-e	energy 	certified	sales.	 a	complete	adjusted	emission	factor 	(i.e.,	residual	mix 	that	accounts	for 	all	voluntary 	 renewable energy claimed) is not available for the u.s. at this time. operational control.  • scope	 :	ecoinvent,	 world	food	lca 	database	(wfldb	 version	 . ),	quantis	dryad	tool	and	the	emission	rates	of	some	of	our 	suppliers.		operational	control.	ghg	protocol	standard	used. kpis   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report ghg emissions - scope   unit       notes scope	 :	category 	 	–	purchased	goods	and	services mtco e  , ,   , ,   , ,  — scope	 :	category 	 	–	capital	goods mtco e not applicable not applicable not applicable — scope	 :	category 	 	–	fuel	and	energy-related	 activities mtco e  ,   ,   ,    scope	 :	category 	 	–	upstream	 transportation	and	distribution mtco e  ,   ,   ,  — scope	 :	category 	 	–	waste	generated	in	operations mtco e  ,   ,   ,    scope	 :	category 	 	–	business	 travel mtco e  ,   ,   ,    scope	 :	category 	 	–	employee	commuting mtco e  ,   ,   ,  — scope	 :	category 	 	–	upstream	leased	 assets mtco e not applicable  ,   ,    scope	 :	category 	 	–	downstream	 transportation	and	distribution mtco e  ,   ,   ,    scope	 :	category 	 	–	processing	of	sold	products mtco e not applicable not applicable not applicable — scope	 :	category 	 	–	use	of	sold	products mtco e not applicable not applicable not applicable — scope	 :	category 	 	–	end-of-life	 treatment	of	sold	products mtco e  ,   ,   ,    scope	 :	category 	 	–	downstream	leased	 assets mtco e not applicable not applicable not applicable — scope	 :	category 	 	–	franchises mtco e not applicable not applicable not applicable — scope	 :	category 	 	–	investments mtco e not applicable not applicable not applicable —  	data	for	 	includes	emissions	related	to	electricity 	production	and	includes	one	brands,	lily's,	dot's	and	pretzels.   data	for	 	includes	one	brands,	lily's,	dot's	and	pretzels.  	business	travel	increased	in	 	and	is	more	closely 	aligned	to	pre-pandemic	levels.		data	for 	 	includes	one	brands,	lily's,	dot's	and	pretzels.  	consistent	 with	our	year-over-year 	improvement,	 we	identified	that	emissions	previously 	associated	 with	our	retail	sales	fleet	 were	better 	aligned	to	definitions	in	scope	 	and	therefore	scope	 :	category 	 	is	no	longer 	applicable.  	our	scope	 :	category 	 	value	decreased	in	 	due	to	continued	improvements	in	fuel	efficiency.   data	for	 	includes	one	brands,	lily's,	dot's	and	pretzels. assurance  hershey's	 	scope	 	data	has	been	independently 	verified	by 	quantis	and	the	corresponding	data	 verification	letter 	is	found	on	pages	 - . scope  hershey's	 	ghg	emissions	data	includes	all	brands	in	hershey’s	portfolio,	including	 amplify,	one	brands,	lily's,	dot's	and	pretzels.		 hershey’s	 	and	 	ghg	emissions	data	excludes	one	brands,	lily's,	dot's	and	pretzels.		 methodology  totals	may 	not	equal	 %,	due	to	rounding. all	calculations	include	relevant	ghg	emissions	as	specified	by 	the	greenhouse	gas	reporting	protocol.	 emission factor sources include:  • scope	 :	ecoinvent,	 world	food	lca 	database	(wfldb	 version	 . ),	quantis	dryad	tool	and	the	emission	rates	of	some	of	our 	suppliers.		operational	control.	ghg	protocol	standard	used.   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report emissions intensity unit       direct	(scope	 ) mtco e per metric ton of product produced  .   .   .  indirect (scope  ): market-based mtco e per metric ton of product produced  .   .   .  scope	 	and	scope	 :	market-based mtco e per metric ton of product produced  .   .   .  value	chain	(scope	 ) mtco e per metric ton of product produced  .   .   .  scope hershey's	 	ghg	emissions	data	includes	all	brands	in	hershey’s	portfolio,	including	 amplify,	one	brands,	lily's,	dot's	and	pretzels.		 hershey’s	 	and	 	ghg	emissions	data	excludes	one	brands,	lily's,	dot's	and	pretzels.			 energy consumption unit       notes biogas gigajoules (gj)  ,   ,   ,    biomass gigajoules (gj)  ,  not applicable not applicable   coal gigajoules (gj)  ,   ,   ,    distillate fuel oil no.   gigajoules (gj)  ,   ,   ,  — electricity consumed gigajoules (gj)  , ,   , ,   , ,  — fuel oil no.   gigajoules (gj)         jet fuel gigajoules (gj)  ,   ,   ,    gasoline gigajoules (gj)  ,   ,   ,    natural gas gigajoules (gj)  , ,   , ,   , ,  — propane gigajoules (gj)  ,      — total energy consumption gigajoules (gj)  , ,   , ,   , ,    energy intensity ratio gj per metric  ton of product  produced  .   .   .     	we	had	a	decrease	in	biogas	in	 	due	to	operational	downtime	of	the	biogas	system.   hershey	transitioned	from	coal	to	biomass	as	an	energy 	source	within	our 	india	plant	in	 .  	fuel	oil	no.	 	is	a	carbon-intensive	fuel,	hershey 	eliminated	from	use	in	   	travel	increased	in	 	and	is	more	closely 	aligned	to	pre-pandemic	levels.  	our	 	results	appropriately 	include	fuel	usage	from	retail	sales	 vehicles	 which	had	been	omitted	previously.   total	may 	not	add	up	 when	using	category 	values	listed	above	due	to	rounding.		our 	 	total	energy 	consumption	metric	received	limited	assurance	by 	ey	(see	pages	 - ).  	represents energy usage at hershey manufacturing plants related to fuel, electricity and heating. note:	the	 	and	 	scope	of	for 	our	energy	consumption	data	includes	all	hershey 	facilities	(e.g.,	offices,	factories	and	distribution	centers/warehouses)	 with	the	exception	of	one	brands,	lily’s,	dot’s	and	pretzels.		 these	locations	are	 included	in	the	 	energy 	consumption	data.kpis kpis   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report electricity mix unit       notes total electricity consumed that is grid electricity %  . %  . %  . %   electricity consumption that is renewable %	  . %  . %  . %   electricity 	consumption	that	qualifies	as	zero-emissions	energy %	  . %  . %  . %   electricity consumption from renewable and zero-emissions energy %  %  % not applicable — recs from solar projects # of recs  ,   ,  not applicable    	these	kpis	received	limited	assurance	by 	ey	(see	pages	 - ).		data	for 	 	includes	one	brands,	lily's,	dot's	and	pretzels   hershey	invested	in	three	solar 	farm	projects	 with	the	first	coming	online	in	 	and	the	second	in	 .		 the	third	is	scheduled	to	generate	power 	beginning	in	 .		  air quality unit       nox emissions metric tons  .   .   .  sox emissions metric tons  .   .   .  voc emissions metric tons  .   .   .  co emissions metric tons  .   .   .  particulate emissions metric tons  .   .   .  note:    	air	emissions	data	represents	hershey's	 	global	confectionery 	manufacturing	sites.   	and	 	data	only 	includes	confectionery 	manufacturing	sites	in	mexico	and	the	u.s.  this data does not include dot's, pretzels, lily's, or one brands.   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report packaging unit       notes eliminating hard-to-recycle pvc % qualified  alternatives  identified for   % of pvcqualified	 alternatives  identified	for 	more	 than	 %	of	pvcnot applicable   total packaging sourced globally metric tons  ,   ,   ,    packaging waste eliminated millions of pounds  .   .   .    product packaging by weight that is currently recyclable %  %  %  % — packaging made from recycled and/or renewable materials %  %  %  . % — packaging in north america that is post-consumer recycled material %  %  %  % —  	hershey’s	commitment	to	eliminate	pvc	by 	end	of	 	 was	announced	in	 .		 we	are	targeting	no	new 	orders	of	pvc	in	 	and	beyond.   this packaging weight includes candy, mint, and gum products. it excludes all other product packaging and any non-hershey purchased packaging materials  	we	eliminated	 . 	million	pounds	of	packaging	 waste	in	 .		 the	decline	in	packaging	 waste	compared	to	 	 was	due	to	a	large	packaging	project	in	 	that	eliminated	a	substantial	amount	of	corrugate	related	to	reese	products.	 cumulative	packaging	 waste	eliminated	( - )	is	 . 	million	pounds. packaging waste eliminated:  • hershey’s	initial	packaging	elimination	goal	 was	achieved	five	 years	ahead	of	schedule	in	 .	 we	have	since	expanded	our 	commitment	to	eliminate	an	additional	 	million	pounds	of	packaging	by 	 . • the	 	 value	does	not	include	packaging	reductions	from	 amplify,	 which	also	reduced	its	packaging	 weight	by 	an	additional	 . 	million	pounds	in	 . water impact unit       notes total water consumption millions of liters         total water consumed in region of extremely high baseline water stress %  . %  %  . %   total water consumed in region of high baseline water stress %	  . %  %  . %   total water discharged millions of liters  ,   ,   ,    total water use millions of liters  ,   ,   ,    groundwater %	of	total	 water	 use  %  %  % — purchased water %	of	total	 water	 use  %  %  % — total water withdrawn in region of extremely high baseline water stress %  . %  %  . %   total water withdrawn in region of high baseline water stress %  %  %  . %   water intensity liters per kilogram  of product  produced  .   .   .  —  	water	consumption	is	calculated	as	 water	use	less	 water	discharge.	 this	metric	has	been	independently 	verified	by 	quantis	(see	pages	 - ).   the	data	represents	hershey’s	global	manufacturing	facilities	and	owned	u.s.	distribution	centers	and	corporate	offices.	 while	water	intensity 	continues	to	improve,	there	 was	an	increased	production	in	 	that	resulted	in	an	increase	in	 water	consumption.	in	 ,	 only	our	plant	in	india	 was	considered	in	a	region	of	extreme	baseline	 water	stress.	in	 	and	 ,	our 	plants	in	india,	monterrey,	and	guadalajara	 were	considered	in	a	region	of	extreme	baseline	 water	stress.  	 	water	data	includes	dot's	and	pretzels	inc.	 this	metric	has	been	independently 	verified	by 	quantis	(see	pages	 - ).  	the	data	represents	hershey’s	global	manufacturing	facilities	and	owned	u.s.	distribution	centers	and	corporate	offices. note:	our 	 	water	data	excludes	one	brands,	lily’s,	dot’s	and	pretzels.kpis kpis   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report waste management unit       notes hazardous waste metric tons         non-hazardous waste generated metric tons  ,   ,   ,    waste to energy (incineration) metric tons  ,   ,   ,    waste	to	trash	(landfill) metric tons  ,   ,   ,    total waste reused and recycled metric tons  ,   ,   ,  — total waste: composted metric tons         total waste: recycled metric tons  ,   ,   ,  — total waste: stock feed metric tons  ,   ,   ,  — waste intensity metric tons of  waste generated  / metric tons of  product produced .   .   .  —  	the	definition	of	hazardous	 waste	varies	by 	country.		in	 ,	medical	 waste	in	malaysia	(e.g.,	covid	personal	protective	equipment	including	gloves	and	masks)	 was	re-classified	as	hazardous	 waste.   data	for	 	includes	one	brands,	lily's,	dot's	and	pretzels,	inc.  	our	reduction	in	compost	in	 	is	attributed	to	an	increase	in	the	amount	of	organic	material	being	diverted	to	stock 	feed. note:    	and	 	data	in	the	 waste	management	table	excludes	one	brands,	lily’s,	dot’s	and	pretzels.  waste	management	data	 within	this	table	has	been	independently 	verified	by 	quantis	(see	pages	 - ).	 kpis   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report biodiversity* unit     hershey, pa manufacturing,	corporate	offices,	distribution	centers%  . %  . % hazleton, pa manufacturing %  . %  . % lancaster, pa manufacturing %  . %  . % stuarts draft, va manufacturing %  . %  . % memphis, tn manufacturing %  . %  . % robinson, il manufacturing %  . %  . % monterrey, nuevo león, mexico manufacturing %  . %  . % guadalajara, jalisco, mexico manufacturing %  . %  . % mandideep, madhya pradesh, india manufacturing %  . %  . % johor, malaysia manufacturing %  . %  . % são roque, são paulo, brazil manufacturing %  . %  . % granby, quebec, canada manufacturing %  . %  . % st. hyacinthe, quebec, canada manufacturing %  . %  . % edwardsville, il distribution center %  . %  . % ogden, ut distribution center %  . %  . % edgerton, ks dot's pretzels %  . %  . % goodyear, az dot's pretzels %  . %  . % lenexa, ks dot's pretzels %  . %  . % velva, nd dot's pretzels %  . %  . % lawrence, ks pretzel's inc. %  . %  . % bluffton,	in pretzel's inc. %  . %  . % plymouth, in pretzel's inc. %  . %  . % *this	data	represents	operational	sites	owned,	leased,	managed	in,	or 	adjacent	to,	protected	areas	and	areas	of	high	biodiversity 	value	outside	protected	areas.		more	specifically,	the	informaiton	identifies	at	hershey-owned	 manufacturing	facilities	and	distribution	centers,	the	percentage	of	nearby 	landscape	considered	under 	protection	 within	 	kilometers	according	to	 the	world	database	on	protected	 areas	(wdpa).		 the	wdpa	is	the	most	 comprehensive	global	database	on	terrestrial	and	marine	protected	areas.	 this	data	is	up	to	date	as	of	march	 .		   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report iucn red list species*     locationcritically  endangered endangered vulnerablenear  threatenedleast  concernedcritically  endangered endangered vulnerablenear  threatenedleast  concerned arizona, usa                     illinois, usa                     indiana, usa                     jalisco, mexico          ,           ,  johor, malaysia          ,           ,  kansas, usa                     madhya prades, india                     north dakota, usa                     nuevo león, mexico                     pennsylvania, usa                     quebec, canada                     são paulo, brazil          ,           ,  tennessee, usa                     utah, usa                     virginia, usa                     *the	data	in	the	table	above	shows	the	iucn	red	list	species	and	national	conservation	list	species	 with	habitats	 within	 	kilometers	of	hershey-owned	manufacturing	facilities	and	distribution	centers,	by 	level	of	extinction	risk. hershey green teams unit       notes hershey green team chapters (globally) #       — hershey green team members # >  >  >  — trees planted and tree seedlings distributed #  ,   ,   ,    trees planted in partnership with the arbor day foundation # of trees  ,  > ,  not applicable    	the total trees planted and tree seedlings data represented in this metric includes the activities of hershey green teams and ongoing partnerships like the arbor day foundation and sustainable dairy pa. it does not include tree planting  related	to	cocoa.	 the	cocoa	tree	data	may 	be	found	on	page	 .   hershey's	previously 	reported	tree	total	has	been	restated	in	this	table	compared	to	our 	 	esg	report.		data	 was	previously 	incorrectly 	reported	by 	the	arbor	day	foundation	to	hershey.		over 	the	course	of	our 	partnership	( - ),	 we	have	planted	more	than	 , 	trees	 with	the	 arbor	day	foundation.	in	calendar 	year	 ,	we	specifically 	planted	 , 	trees.kpis our  people at hershey, we foster a culture of  togetherness and collaboration  where our people feel heard, valued  and supported to do their best work  each day. we strive to nurture workplaces where inclusiveness is  automatic, not an initiative, and all employees can be  their whole selves at work. we fuel their potential when  we invest in them and enable them to be the best  versions of themselves. together, we have built a deep sense of pride, passion  and belonging that transcends any role, business unit,  language or country.   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the hershey company   esg reportlead today, create tomorrow  changes in the external labor environment continue to  present hershey with the opportunity to evolve our current  workforce strategies. our employee value proposition  — to lead today, create tomorrow — encapsulates our  people-first	strategy 	to	maintain	and	strengthen	our 	highly- engaged and productive workforce. by listening carefully  and continuously to our employees, we gain valuable  insights that enable us to create a workplace that meets  employees’ needs and helps them thrive. by understanding  and adapting to external trends, we create opportunities to  embrace technology to rethink people development, best  utilize our employees’ time, drive productivity and retain  talented, productive employees.  our strategy there are four pillars to our lead today,  create tomorrow strategy: flexibility and time use we are supporting overall well-being by helping employees  maximize time both at home and at work. through the  best of both framework, employees enjoy flexibility in  when, where and how work gets done. over the past two  years, this framework has been instrumental in driving  engagement, inclusion and belonging, and innovation  across our teams.  → learn more in family friendly, flexible work options on page  .we invest in a dynamic workforce  and foster an environment where all  employees can thrive. together, we  are creating a brighter tomorrow  for hershey and each other.development for all we	foster 	a	fulfilling	professional	environment	to	promote	 individual	growth	for 	all.	hershey 	has	also	intensified	our 	 efforts	to	build	a	talent	pipeline	of	future	leaders.	in	 ,	 we launched a robust talent assessment process to feed  our director and critical role pipeline with commercially- oriented talent.  this program supplements established talent pipeline  efforts	geared	at	ensuring	that	 we	have	a	solid	and	diverse	 bench and pipeline for our most critical enterprise roles.  → learn more in investing in development to create tomorrow  on page  .  energizing experiences we celebrate the positive contributions of an inclusive and  diverse workforce. through our pathways to join, grow  and reach out , we are welcoming, including and helping  to advance people inside — and outside — of hershey. see  additional	details	about	the	pathways	project	on	page	 .  care systems and rewards we	offer 	recognition	and	rewards	that	enrich	financial,	 emotional and physical well-being of our people in  meaningful	 ways.	see	care	systems	&	flexibility 	on	page	 . our purpose to make more moments of goodness, inspires  our people. we come to work each day motivated to make  and sell the iconic brands that our consumers love. those  brands hold a unique place in people's hearts and minds,  differentiate	our 	business	and	drive	our 	future	growth.why it matters our culture has long been one that values  togetherness, excellence, integrity and  making	a	difference.	 we	strive	to	cultivate	a	 workplace that delivers exceptional business  performance in a way that energizes our  people.	risks	to	our 	efforts	are	similar 	to	the	 labor trends that many are experiencing -  economic uncertainty and inflation, attrition  and global events. great talent is in more  demand with ongoing labor shortages and a  focus	on	skills-first	hiring.   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the hershey company   esg reportwe	put	the	safety 	of	our	people	first.	from	our 	employees,	 to contractors and guests we work to protect and  promote every person's well-being. health and safety is  a fundamental human right and we strive to uphold the  highest standards ensuring mental and physical safety of all  employees. our approach is based on global best practices  and seeks to meet or exceed regulations wherever we  operate.	hershey’s environmental,	health	&	safety 	policy	 statement is	signed	by 	our	ceo,	michele	buck,	and	applies	 to all global hershey employees.  we use an environmental, health and safety (ehs)  management	system	introduced	in	 	and	modeled	 on	the	leading	iso	 	and	 	standards.	 this	 global ehs system instituted standardized practices that  make it easier to maximize employee safety, ensure legal  compliance regardless of location, and unite our people  under one way of thinking about ehs. it encompasses  updated global safety standards for both people and  the environment, as well as regular training for relevant  employees on applicable topics. in	 ,	 we	began	implementing	a	culture-based	 ergonomics program to make our employees more  comfortable and increase productivity. our goal is to  achieve a  % hazard reduction for job functions  with ergonomic risks by  . overall risk reduction at  hershey will be achieved through automation, employee  awareness, training, development of employee-based  ergonomics committees, risk assessments, incorporation of  ergonomics into project planning, and the implementation  of corrective and preventative action plans.our global ehs management system we completed the implementation of our new ehs  management	system	in	 .	 this	work	was	supported	 by a robust internal audit system that validated the  application of the standard, as well as site compliance  with local regulations. audit teams consisted of ehs  center of excellence members and ehs managers from  other hershey sites. our ehs lean pillar team oversees  the implementation of the new safety standards and  procedures. safety training proper training is vital to equipping employees for a safe  experience at work. we follow a comprehensive training  program to ensure that our employees are aware of  and comply with all company and regulatory training  requirements. all hershey site locations follow the same  training matrix to plan, implement and monitor completion  of appropriate environmental, health, and safety training  for applicable employees. our safety training program  encompasses   separate training requirements with set  frequencies of initial, annual, bi-annual, and every three  years, based on overall risk and regulatory requirements.  dependent	on	the	specific	program,	training	is	completed	 though computer-based modules, classroom, and/or  hands-on instruction. we evaluate delivery and completion  of training as part of the global ehs assessment program  implemented	in	 .	employee ergonomics  we are rolling out our ergonomics program through a six- step	maturity	ladder	process	and	expect	to	achieve	our  %	 hazard reduction goal when each site has completed  implementation.	steps	 	through	 	focused	on	the	 development of cross-functional ergonomic committees,  general	awareness	training	for 	all	employees,	identification	 and completion of at least three ergonomic improvements,  and in-depth training for committee members about  ergonomic risk assessments. this also involved evaluation  of individual tasks and the completion of risk assessments  at	each	manufacturing	location.	by 	the	end	of	 ,	 	of	 	 sites	completed	ergonomic	activities	through	step	 .	 based on current progression through the established  ergonomic steps, we reduced ergonomic risk by  approximately 	 %	against	our 	 	goal. risk assessment conducting risk assessments for individual job tasks is a  critical step in reducing ergonomic risk. we have completed  ergonomic	risk 	assessments	at	 	of	our 	 	manufacturing	 locations. these risk assessments allow each respective  location to prioritize ergonomic hazards into low, medium  and high categories. as a next step, we will develop plans to  address	the	identified	risks.	 what’s next • develop life saving rules, i.e., safety imperatives to be  followed by all employees • develop and implement human factors training to  provide	awareness	of	individual	factors	that	may 	affect	 performance  • increase	focus	on	process safety 	via	the	hershey 	process	 safety management program, which aids in managing  hazards and reducing the frequency and severity of  incidents  → for a summary of our safety data, see page  .   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report safety first   caring for people's  safety is one of our  deepest responsibilities  at hershey and critical  to our ongoing success.” ken soltesz, director, environment,  health and safety, the hershey companysalient human rights issue: health and safety the hershey company   esg reportemployee well-being is a  cornerstone of an engaged,  innovative and productive  workforce. when our employees  feel seen, respected and cared  for, they give their best.to remain competitive, hershey provides a compelling  workplace	that	offers	flexibility,	room	to	grow,	career 	 connections and unique experiences. as our business  evolves, we open our doors by bringing in more voices and  perspectives to support our continued success. we provide  opportunities for our people to learn and practice new  ideas, behaviors and skills. to support whole individuals, we  provide care systems and rewards, including competitive  wages	and	benefits	focused	on	our 	employees’	 well-being.	 listening to employees hershey’s continuous listening strategy includes ongoing  two-way dialogue with employees via quarterly surveys,  small group discussions and real-time feedback at key  moments during the employee experience. the insights  obtained are used to identify drivers of engagement and  inform enhancements to our people practices and policies.  data	from	the	fourth	quarter 	of	 	shows	that	employee	 engagement is strong and employee expectations are  being met or exceeded. when looking at demographic  breakdowns, trends are highly consistent with enterprise- level results.  development for all we know from listening that career growth and  development are priorities for employees and we have  implemented several programs in response to this  feedback. recent investments in development include the  launch of a formal mentoring program, expansion of our  pathways to grow accelerated experiential development  program, and development for all philosophy, which is  focused on customized development plans tailored to  individual employees’ career goals. → for data related to hershey’s employee engagement survey  results, see page  .pay equity being named as one of the world’s top female friendly  companies	by 	forbes	was	a	powerful	affirmation	of	 our commitment to gender equity. we are committed  to providing equal pay for equal work. we periodically  conduct pay practice reviews to assess how women are  paid compared to men globally, and, in the u.s., we also  monitor how employees from underrepresented ethnic/ racial backgrounds are paid compared to their white  counterparts. achieving pay parity by gender — and race  — is an integral part of that commitment and an area in  which	we	are	making	steady 	progress.	in	 ,	 we	reached	 aggregate pay equity for women across our u.s. workforce.  then,	in	 ,	 we	went	beyond	that	milestone	and	achieved	 aggregate pay equity for our u.s. salaried people of color  (poc)	team	members.	in	 ,	 we	maintained	these	fair 	 and equitable pay achievements. now, we're setting our  sights across our global workforce to achieve pay equity for  similar job categories across our global salaried employees  by	 .	supporting mental health mental health remains a key concern for employees and  their families. we value the well-being of our people and  have invested in providing critical support to help both  managers and employees function well both in and out  of	work.	in	 ,	hershey 	and	our	mental	health	provider 	 conducted sessions to help managers care for themselves  and	their 	employees,	and	also	offered	sessions	for 	all	 employees.  beginning	in	 january	 ,	we	expanded	mental	health	 support and improved access to care via a new vendor  and employee assistance program (eap). we conducted  orientation sessions in our plants to educate employees on  the	capabilities	of	the	new 	provider 	and	are	offering	on-site	 appointments	 with	counselors.	 this	new 	program	offers	 personalized support and resources to help employees  manage daily challenges such as building healthier habits,  family	care,	 / 	crisis	support	and	substance	abuse,	as	 well as clinical support for anxiety and depression. there is  no	cost	to	participate	in	up	to	 	therapy 	and	 	coaching	 sessions	per 	year	for	benefit-eligible	employees	and	each	 individual living in their household (ages  +). employee well-being  and development why it matters hershey depends on a broad and diverse  workforce. amid the lingering impact  of the pandemic, today’s workers have  changed their expectations and are looking  for mental health and well-being support  in the workplace. this trend is placing  pressure on employers to enhance their  approach to valuing human capital by  providing attractive careers, flexible work  arrangements and an environment that  embraces inclusivity. the ongoing cost of  living	crisis	is	also	top	of	mind	for 	 %	of	 ceos, as they balance retaining talent with  responding to employee demands for higher  wages.  these challenges can be heightened  when trying to attract talent to locations  that	lack 	a	sufficient	pool	of	qualified	talent.	 a company’s approach to issues such as  employee well-being, an inclusive workplace  and flexible work options are increasingly  seen	as	differentiators	 when	it	comes	to	 attracting and retaining talent.  	kpmg	 	ceo	outlook 	|	kpmg   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report salient human rights issue: gender and social inequality hershey’s coverage of  diabetic medication and  supplies has enhanced  the opportunity for self- care for my spouse and  me. this is truly life- changing and we are  beyond appreciative!” hershey employee benefits recipient  the hershey company   esg reportcare systems & flexibility we	provide	a	comprehensive	array 	of	benefits	to	support	 our employees in their well-being, work-life balance and  plans	for 	their	future.	in	 ,	 we	introduced	industry- leading	parental	leave	benefits	for 	both	salaried	and	 hourly employees. we enhanced our parental leave policy  and	now 	offer	up	to	six 	weeks	of	parental	leave	for 	hourly	 employees and have increased our parental leave for  salaried	employees	from	six 	to	 	weeks	with	a	potential	 maximum	of	 	 weeks	paid	leave. 	this	enhanced	benefit	 recognizes the importance of providing care systems for  our employees	and	making	their 	well-being	a	priority.	 benefits overview the hershey company provides valuable medical plans and  a	host	of	comprehensive	benefit	programs	and	resources	to	 help our employees and their families manage their health.  u.s. hershey employees, wherever they live, have access  to health care coverage that allows individuals to make  private, personal choices regarding the care or treatment  they may receive.  • travel coverage is also available for medical procedures  if	medical	services	are	not	available	 within	 	miles	of	 employee’s home. • we	continue	to	offer 	teledoc	for 	 / 	virtual	access	to	 u.s.	board-certified	physicians	for 	non-emergency 	health	 care support and services for behavioral health issues. • our	pharmacy 	copay	assistance	program	helps	offset	the	 cost of select specialty pharmacy medications, and we  now	cover	 %	of	costs	for 	all	diabetes	medication	and	 supplies. • to	promote	employee	fitness,	 we	maintain	several	fitness	 centers for employees and their families. the fitness  center and amenities at our corporate headquarters in  pennsylvania are free to all employees, retirees, spouses  and adult dependents. a	full	list	of	benefits	may 	be	found	on	our 	benefits	 web	 page.  family friendly, flexible work options we’re acting to meet the needs of today’s workers.  through our best of both program, our work environment  today is flexible and family friendly, helping employees  to manage the demands of their work and personal lives.  many of the changes introduced in recent years are now  a permanent part of the way we work. we provide a more  flexible working model for all employees, regardless of role,  which helps attract a more diverse workforce. we have  improved scheduling for manufacturing teams and retail  employees while supporting a hybrid virtual/in-person work  approach for corporate employees. for example, we are  promoting flex and time use through reduced overtime.  we have increased dedicated and flex trainers including  bilingual trainers for our spanish-speaking colleagues.  we	continue	to	offer 	competitive	rewards	and	benefits	 including alternate work schedules that have resulted in  the	lowest	overtime	levels	in	five	 years	and	 year-over-year 	 reduction in attrition. likewise, comparable investments in  our employees have resulted in reduced attrition, increased  fill	rates	and	increased	diversity. our	suite	of	smartflex 	benefit	policies	enable	individuals	to	 create their own balance between work and personal life. it  is designed to improve productivity, boost job satisfaction  and increase employee engagement. these policies include  parental leave, flexible technology arrangements, flexible  time management, and family flex designations. supporting employees beyond the workplace • hershey scholars program: a competitive scholarship  program providing support to hershey employees’  children pursuing post-secondary education.  scholarships are awarded for up to four years for students  seeking undergraduate degrees and other post- secondary educational opportunities.  • hershey	employees	 st	fund:	 an employee relief fund  that provides grants to individual employees facing  disaster or hardships. this employee assistance fund  is made up of donations from the company as well as  from hershey employees to help fellow employees and  their	families	in	times	of	need	or 	unexpected	financial	 hardship. engaging with unions the employees at our manufacturing facilities who craft  our world-class products perform valuable jobs and enjoy  competitive	 wages	and	benefits.	in	doing	so,	they 	report	 strong engagement with their work. our plant facilities  offer	open	communications	and	collaboration	as	part	of	our 	 employee experience. at some facilities, our manufacturing  employees are represented by labor organizations and  operate under collective bargaining agreements. our  labor relations are conducted in the spirit of collaboration  for	the	benefit	of	employees	and	the	company.	in	 ,	 approximately 	 %	of	our 	employees	 worldwide	 were	 covered by collective bargaining agreements. these  employees have the opportunity to renegotiate agreements  with hershey at a regular cadence, and like all of our  other employees, have access to grievance processes and  procedures, including our concern line.  → learn more about our rightsholder engagement in cocoa in  protecting the environment on pages  - .   	enhanced	benefits	became	effective	on	 jan.	 ,	 	for 	 professional employees and hourly employees.   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report employee well-being and development   continued the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report investing in development  to create tomorrow developing tomorrow’s leaders hershey	has	intensified	our 	efforts	to	build	a	talent	pipeline	 of	future	leaders.	in	 ,	 we	launched	a	robust	talent	 assessment process to feed our director and critical role  pipeline with commercially oriented talent. we assessed  talent against six areas that are predictive of future success.  these development potential competency areas include  learning, motivation, thinking, interpersonal, leadership and  communication. development potential is now part of a  multi-year approach to invest deeper into the organization  to generate a supply of future leaders for business  continuity. this program supplements hershey’s already  established	talent	pipeline	efforts	geared	at	ensuring	that	 we have a solid and diverse bench for our most critical  enterprise roles. mentoring makes us stronger we encourage leaders and employees to own their careers  through our stronger & growing together mentoring  program. we understand the importance of not only  training opportunities but also social and experiential  learning from internal experts. they also develop key skills  needed to advance their own future and grow our business. hershey empowers all employees with  opportunities to learn, grow and lead in  their roles. at the hershey company, we invest in everyone, value  our employees, and appreciate what they bring to our  innovation and growth. to retain and attract top-tier  talent, we are committed to providing our employees with  experiences	filled	 with	the	opportunity 	to	excel.	 we’re	 stronger together when each employee can achieve  their best.  development at hershey means empowering our people to  learn and practice new ideas, behaviors and skills. enabling  our people to develop themselves for tomorrow while  executing with excellence today is critical to our long-term  success.	 we	offer 	a	variety	of	programming,	tools,	and	 resources for skill building and development planning. learning opportunities since	 ,	 we	have	partnered	 with	leading	online	content	 experts and increased internal learning development to  expand our catalog of online and classroom courses to  more	than	 , .	 this	unique	combination	of	 world- class resources, genuine responsibility and authentic  experience makes hershey a place where employees can  become	leaders	in	their 	fields.	the	majority 	of	our	executive	 officers	were	promoted	from	 within	the	organization.	 as	 part	of	our 	development	for 	all	initiative,	 %	of	hershey 	 employees have access to our learning system to receive  and	participate	in	training	opportunities.	of	those,	 %	 accessed	and	completed	training	in	 .	our 	 	 training and development investments totaled more  than $ . 	million.	 the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report by taking big strides together on our  holistic dei strategy, the pathways  project, we’re welcoming, including  and helping to advance people inside —  and outside — of hershey.  diversity is a source of energy and innovation at the  hershey company. we have a long-standing commitment  to foster an inclusive environment where all employees  around the world can bring their whole selves to work  each day. we strive to positively address dei through  programs and policies to champion diversity, while avoiding  discrimination of any kind within our company and along  our supply chain. at the core is the pathways project,	 a	five-year 	plan	to	make	 our workforce and communities even more inclusive. co- created with a diverse group of employees who shared their  experiences, this plan maps our journey to truly advance  inclusion in our business and our communities. pathways  helps us hold ourselves accountable to achieve our goals.  we use it to inform our business decisions and ensure that  dei stays at the forefront of making moments of goodness,  together. while	 	 was	a	year	of	vision	casting	and	strategy-setting,	  	was	a	year	of	integration.	 across	the	enterprise,	our 	 leaders and people embraced our vision and adopted  it as our new way of operating. our intentional actions  yielded tangible results. we saw increased transparency  and an inclusive tone at the top, under the leadership of  the executive team and led by our ceo, michele buck.  we accelerated our engagement with employees as we  embedded dei into the company — making it real and  actionable every day.our ceo and her direct reports hold their teams  accountable	to	living	dei.	in	 ,	enterprise	dei	goals	 were linked to executive team performance and are  considered by the compensation and human capital  committee	as	part	of	their 	assessment	of	non-financial	 performance factors in determining annual incentive  payouts for our executives. progress toward our goals  was reviewed quarterly with the executive team as well as  shared with	our 	board	of	directors	and	business	resource	 groups (brgs). as part of our dei evolution, we are increasing transparency  related	to	our 	goals,	strategies	and	outcomes.	in	 ,	 we	 published	our 	consolidated	eeo- 	report,	 which	can	be	 found within the sustainability section of our website. → learn more at our corporate website here   www.thehersheycompany.com.  what’s next • continue	linking	our 	 	pathways	dei	strategy 	to	our	 leading snacking powerhouse goals • expand uses of dei to drive innovation in our commercial  business and enrich the employee experience dei is good business how hershey defines diversity:	refers	to	dimensions	of	difference	between	 people, often referred to in terms of race and gender.  at hershey, we also include dimensions such as  age, ethnicity, sexual orientation, veteran status and  physical abilities. people of color (poc): refers to black, african  american,	hispanic/latino,	 asian/asian	pacific	 islander,	hawaiian	pacific	islander 	and	those	 who	 identify as two or more races.dei is no longer a project at  hershey. it is embedded in  how we work, how we  energize our employees,  and how we partner with  consumers, customers and  the communities where we  do business.” alicia petross, chief diversity officer,  the hershey companymaterial esg issue: diversity, equity and inclusion (dei) salient human rights issue: gender and social inequality goodness works dei underpins our company values, behaviors and  our leader standards. our ceo and her leadership  team believe that diverse perspectives, inclusion, and  equitable practices and outcomes drive our business  and our culture.  dei is everyone’s responsibility and our code of  conduct reflects this: • treat others the way you’d like to be treated • celebrate diversity. listen and be receptive to  different	points	of	 view • speak up if you see or suspect discrimination or  harassment • promote a work environment free of harassment,  bullying and abusive conduct the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report we’re bringing in a wider range of talent  and perspectives as we strive toward  ambitious targets for recruitment.  through powerful partnerships with  educational institutions, we’re growing  tomorrow’s talent pool. we’re embedding more diverse people every time we  recruit employees and engage with suppliers. for the  search	and	hiring	process,	 we	set	goals	that candidate	 slates	 and	interview 	teams	will	consist	of	 %	diverse	individuals	 and	expanded	our 	goal	from	 %	(as	reported	in	our 	 	 esg	report)	to	 %	of	talent	acquisition	search	 volume	 done	with	search	firms	 will	be	conducted	by 	diverse-owned	 firms	by	 .	we	will	use	our 	purchasing	power 	to	advance	 social	equity 	by	spending	$ 	million	 with	diverse	 businesses	throughout	our 	supply	chain	by 	 . pathways to join is about bringing a wider range of talent  and perspectives into the hershey community. that begins  with	our	hiring	process.	in	 ,	diverse-owned	firms	 led  %	of	all	talent	acquisition	search	 volume.	 college recruiting we	maintained	 	historically 	black	colleges	and	 universities	(hbcu) and	hispanic-serving	institutions	 on our roster of universities and schools from which we  recruit.	in	 ,	these	institutions	constituted	 %	of	our 	 core	universities	and	schools,	and	provided	 %	of	our 	 candidates for entry-level positions.  milton hershey school  our unique relationship with milton hershey school  (mhs) enables us to connect with and create meaningful  opportunities for students, many of whom study in the  career	and	technical	education	program.	in	 ,	 we	 hired  	mhs	graduates.additionally,	 	mhs	students	obtained	their 	pre- apprenticeship	certification	through	a	collaboration	 with	 mhs and the manufacturers’ association of south central  pa (mascpa).  → learn more in providing education and opportunity  on pages  - .  welcoming veterans  we are proud of our legacy in supporting the u.s. military  dating to world war i when we supplied milk chocolate bars  to american soldiers. today, we continue that legacy by  supporting military members and their families transitioning  back to civilian life. the veterans brg provides a sense of  togetherness for those with military service to aid in that  transition and is paramount to our recognition in being a  leader in veteran inclusion. to further our commitment,  we are deepening our partnerships with three military  hiring	organizations	to	expand	military-affiliated	hiring	 across salaried and hourly positions. our goal is to drive an  increase	of	 %	in	military 	hires	during	 .	more pathways to join  hershey  says “hola”  to hispanic  workers in  hazleton, pacase study through	the	say 	hola	project,	 we	launched	our 	first	 bilingual manufacturing plant in hazleton, pennsylvania.  we’re proud that today both spanish- and english- speaking employees work seamlessly side-by-side in a  bilingual environment to create the goodness inside. the  hazleton	plant	employs	more	than	 	spanish-speaking	 employees and our workplace reflects the communities in  which	our 	colleagues	live.	in	the	past	 	 years,	hazleton’s	 hispanic population	has	grown	from	 %	to	more	than	 %. among other changes at the plant, we now conduct  training in both english and spanish and feature all signs,  labels and forms in both languages. bilingual employees  and resources are available on the plant floor to help with  communication, and workers can use a toll-free phone  number	for	translation	assistance	on	a	 / 	basis.	members	 of our latino business resource group (lbrg) played a  key role in planning and rolling out say hola and continue  to be key leaders in the program. the results speak for themselves: we’ve improved retention,  are attracting more experienced workers and reduced  recruitment	costs	since	the	effort	began.	for 	example,	 more	than	 %	of	the	job	candidates	now 	have	the	desired	 manufacturing	experience,	compared	to	a	 %	rate	before	 the program began. in this way and others, say hola  supports	our 	people-first	manufacturing	strategy,	as	 we	 keep pace with increasing consumer demand and grow our  business in new ways. the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report our supplier diversity program we aim to have the suppliers we work with represent the  customers and consumers we serve. this is critical for  innovation and business success. in fact, we are well on our  way toward our goal of increasing our spend with diverse  suppliers	to	$ 	million	by 	 .	this	trend	grew 	in	 	 as we increased our overall spend with diverse suppliers  by	 %	—	from	$ 	million	to	$ 	million,	 with	nearly 	 	 diverse suppliers. we are also on track to quintuple our tier    program (when non-diverse suppliers report their spend  with	diverse	suppliers)	from	 	to	 	suppliers.  this growth will help promote economic equality and  opportunity for diverse businesses — those owned by  people of color, women, veterans, lgbtq and disabled  people. this is more than an aspiration for us — it is a  business imperative and a mandate from our ceo,  michele buck.	 welcoming diverse-owned businesses we became new members of weconnect, disabilityin,  national veterans business development council, and  the national gay and lesbian chamber of commerce  to better access and support diverse supplier networks.  these relationships are in addition to our memberships in  the national minority supplier development council and  women’s business enterprise national council.  as we look to expand our program beyond the u.s.,  we partnered with weconnect and surveyed current  suppliers based outside the u.s. to assess whether any are  women-owned.	based	on	the	results,	due	in	early 	 ,	 we’ll develop a plan to grow our business with them and  connect with new prospective woman-owned suppliers  internationally. procurement data in	 ,	 we	built	a	dashboard	to	provide	procurement	 and supplier relationship managers with real-time access  to supplier diversity data, including non-diverse supplier  progress and performance on tier   supplier diversity. our  team members consider this information in their sourcing  decisions	and	supplier 	discussions.	in	 ,	this	dashboard	 will be formally integrated into a holistic supplier scorecard  alongside other weighted business metrics. finally, we engaged an external consultant to benchmark  our diverse spend across key procurement categories. this  will allow us to identify the areas of greatest opportunity  to increase our diverse spend and form the foundation for  category-specific	actions. what’s next • launch	our 	first	enterprise-wide	goal	to	engage	a	 diverse slate of prospective suppliers for requests for  proposal	 worth	$ , 	or 	more.	this	goal	is	linked	to	 each executive team member’s performance plan and  cascades to their direct reports and teams. • launch an e-learning course about our program,  including its history, importance and goals. • re-establish our supplier diversity champion program to  partner more deeply with each function to drive progress  toward our goals.  	diverse	spend	includes	formal	industry-recognized	certification	and	self-certification,	and	 tier	 	and	tier	 	spend	 with	 u.s.-based	suppliers.	diverse	suppliers	refers	to	businesses	that	are	 %	owned,	managed	and	controlled	by 	women	 and/or black, hispanic, asian, indigenous, u.s. military veteran, lgbtq+ and disabled persons, or other individuals that  qualify as socioeconomically disadvantaged.more pathways to join  continued  i am so beyond grateful to the  hershey company for helping  reduce the stress on my mother…  this scholarship has provided a  large amount of relief. it's also  encouraging to know that the  hershey company believes in my  future aspirations.” adeola adedeji, howard university  student and hershey tmcf endowment  scholarship recipient we’re expanding the pipeline of exceptional college  graduates with food science skills by funding scholarships  through the thurgood marshall college fund (tmcf). in  december 	 ,	hershey 	became	the	first	company 	to	 endow	a	tmcf	scholarship	 with	a	$ . 	million	investment.	 we	have	contributed	$ , 	since	then,	including	 $ , 	in	 .	 we	aim	to	increase	that	to	a	total	of	 $ 	million	over 	a	period	of	 	 years.	the	fund	represents	 and	supports	the	ambitions	of	nearly 	 , 	students	 attending	 	member 	schools	that	include	public	hbcus,	 medical schools and law schools. our investment provides  scholarships for students pursuing degrees in food science  at tmcf member schools, which include public colleges  that provide advanced education for underrepresented  populations. in addition to this funding, we collaborated across key  functional areas (retail, finance, supply chain and  engineering) to attract tmcf talent by leading career  information workshops through which we reached    students.	case study $ m  f $  million funded as part of our diverse student  scholarships commitment which began in   $      ,       in dei contributions to nonprofits  supporting black youthinvesting in  food science  students the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report across our communities, we  improve access to education for  underrepresented students, empower  our brgs to connect with consumers in  new ways, and support volunteerism. we are investing in the changes that are building the  communities we want to see: where underrepresented  groups have a clear and accessible path to quality  education and where everyone feels seen, heard  and supported. our commitment is to serve and support the local  communities of all our stakeholders, from our home in  the heart of pennsylvania to the diverse areas where we  operate around the world. as a part of this commitment,  we are making an impact through educational investments,  community programming and dei initiatives with supply  chain partners. we proudly continued our partnerships with  equal justice initiative and asian americans advancing  justice	in	 	and	added	league	of	united	latin	 american citizens to our roster of partners.during	the	 year,	our 	dei-focused	 volunteer 	efforts	 included several mentorship programs, including our  long-standing engagement with students at milton  hershey school. our employees also mentored students  at the dauphin county technical school and across  local school districts and young people in the naacp  act-so achievement program of harrisburg. the act- so program recognizes and supports young people  from underrepresented communities who demonstrate  academic,	scientific	and	artistic	achievement. what’s next • deepen mhs and hershey talent pipeline • continued support of thurgood marshall college  fund, eji	and	naacp act-so	partnershipsmore pathways to reach out the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report more pathways to grow  we recognize and develop talent from  groups that have traditionally been  underrepresented. we are creating  an environment where colleagues can  operate with courage and learn from  each other. we’re capitalizing on the strength of existing talent by  improving access to training and resources on leadership,  racism, unconscious bias and well-being. we continue to  invest in early-in-career and mid-career development and  training to expand commercial skills and career building for  poc and women. we implemented multiple ways to equip and engage  current employees while continuing to increase diversity  and foster inclusion.  building business acumen  our pathways to grow flagship educational program  focuses on building the skills entry-level poc associates  need for advancement to manager level roles. this program,  initially	launched	in	 ,	is	an	intensive	five-month,	 cohort-based curriculum culminating in a presentation  of a simulated learning project to leaders. throughout   - ,	 we	graduated	more	than	 	participants	from	 the program. these participants have a higher lateral and  upward promotion rate than the rest of the enterprise.  the	program	continues	in	 	 with	an	additional	   participants. unconscious bias training a new way of understanding our own thoughts and  perspectives is emerging from our second delivery of  unconscious bias training. we invite — and expect — all  employees	to	participate	in	the	training	offered	twice	a	 year at	times	designed	to	facilitate	participation.	during	  , employees	completed	 , 	hours	of	unconscious	 bias training. feedback and coaching for leaders we continued the conversations with our leaders on micro- aggressions, micro-advantages, inequities, micro-actions  and their impact on others. during leadership essentials  training, leaders practiced how to avoid micro-inequities  and micro-advantages.  what’s next • support accelerated development for emerging leaders  (known as development potential)  • conduct unconscious bias training for the third  consecutive year • continue pathways to grow with two cohorts • expand early in career development opportunities and  offer	career	development	 action	planning	 workshops  	graduates	of	the	program	are	promoted	at	a	rate	that	is	 %	higher 	than	 the promotion rate for colleagues who have not experienced the program.  pathways to growth graduates are also considered for additional programs  designed for early-in-career colleagues. the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report case study growing employee participation in our brgs delivered  outsized	enthusiasm	and	impact	during	 .	nearly 	 %	 of corporate employees now belong to at least one of  hershey’s eight employee-led brgs — abilities first, black  heritage,	 asian	and	pacific	islander,	genh	(generations),	 latino, prism (lgbtq), veterans and women — which are  crucial to attracting diverse talent and providing mentoring  and career development opportunities. brgs also deliver  business insights, influence company policy, and connect  people to the company and the communities where  we	work.	learn	more	in celebrating	 women	and	 youth	 through	our 	brands	on	page	 .	below 	are	some	examples	 of the many actions taken by our brgs in the past year. black heritage brg: • played a key role in conceiving and executing black music  month,	a	promotion	to	close	a	$ 	million	share	gap	 with black consumers and support black youth through  meaningful	nonprofit	partnerships • co-created our second annual juneteenth all-company  celebration featuring ceo michele buck asian & pacific islander: • designed and delivered lunar new year celebration at  hershey’s	chocolate	 world,	reaching	more	than	 , 	 visitors across four retail locations • influenced lunar new year gift wrapping and  merchandise in hershey’s chocolate worldwomen’s brg: • partnered with the hershey’s brand team and creatives  for the launch of the celebrate she bars during women’s  history month abilities first brg: • continued our partnership with the national  organization on disability and contributed to our  recognition	as	a	 	leading	disability 	employer • hosted an all-employee town hall featuring senior leaders  who transparently shared their personal experiences with  mental	health,	after 	which	our 	disability 	self-identification	 rate	increased	from	 %	to	 %.	how our brgs are  driving retention  and development more pathways to grow  continued i am proud to support  removing barriers and  increasing access to  educational opportunities  for underrepresented  communities. being  intentional is a key factor  in the success of our  aspiration to expand  talent pipelines across  our organization.”  tory niceswander, manager employee  relations, dei and esg programs,  the hershey company goals the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report our progress employees unit     notes global employees: total # of employees  ,   ,    full-time # of employees  ,   ,    part-time # of employees  ,   ,    union representation collective bargaining employees %  %  %    	data	in	this	table	for 	 	and	 		total	global,	full-time	and	part-time	employees	includes	hershey,	lily’s,	dot’s	and	pretzels	and	is	consistent	 with	employee	headcount	data	as	reported	in	 hershey’s	 	form	 -k.   the	 	percentage	of	employees	covered	by 	collective	bargaining	agreements	includes	employees	 worldwide.people goals target y earprogress (as of dec.  ,   ) goal status notes achieve pay equity for similar job categories across our global salaried  employees   in  , we  maintained fair  and equitable pay  achievements,  including  :   aggregate people  of color pay  equity for salaried  employees in the  united states  ( ) and  :   aggregate gender  pay ( ).on track —  – % women representation across all employees globally    . % achieved —  – % people of color (poc) representation across u.s. employees    . % on track    % hazard reduction for job functions with ergonomic risks through process  improvements %on track —  	poc	refers	to	black,	 african	american,	hispanic/latino,	 asian/asian	pacific	islander,	hawaiian	pacific	islander 	and	those	 who	identify 	as	two	or 	more	races. kpis kpis the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report employees      total female male total female male total female male global employees  ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,  full-time  ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,  part-time  ,       ,       ,      regular  ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,  temporary  ,             ,   ,    note:	race/ethnicity 	and	gender 	data	in	this	table	are	based	on	employee	self-identification	in	hershey’s	hr	data	system	as	of	december 	 ,	 .	 this	employee	data	does	not	include	hershey’s	recent	acquisition	of	pretzels. employees by type and region      regular temporary regular temporary regular temporary globally  ,   ,   ,     ,   ,  united states (including puerto rico)  ,     ,     ,    non-u.s.  ,     ,     ,    asia  ,     ,     ,    africa             north america             europe             latin america  ,     ,     ,    note:	data	in	this	table	is	based	on	information	from	hershey’s	hr	data	system	as	of	december 	 ,	 .	 this	employee	data	does	not	include	hershey’s	recent	acquisition	of	pretzels. global workforce by age      under   years  old -  years old over   years  oldunder   years  old -  years old over   years  oldunder   years  old -  years old over   years  old total workforce  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . % non-management  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . % management  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . % senior leader  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . % executive team  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . % note:   data	in	this	table	is	based	on	information	from	hershey’s	hr	data	system	as	of	december 	 ,	 .	 this	employee	data	does	not	include	hershey’s	recent	acquisition	of	pretzels,	inc.			  data	may 	not	equal	 %	due	to	rounding.  hershey’s executive team includes employees who report to hershey’s ceo, including the ceo. kpis the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report u.s. workforce by hershey internal job category    female poc female poc executives/senior leaders  . %  . %  . %  . % entry-level professional employees  . %  . %  . %  . % leaders in commercial functions  . %  . %  . %  . % sales employees  . %  . %  . %  . % hourly manufacturing employees  . %  . %  . %  . % note:   data in this table represents hershey internal hr job category data and does not directly correlate to eeoc job category data.  data	in	this	table	is	based	on	employee	self-identification	in	hershey’s	hr	data	system	as	of	december 	 ,	 .	 this	employee	data	does	not	include	hershey’s	recent	acquisition	of	pretzels,	inc.	 u.s. workforce by race/ethnicity unit       u.s. workforce, total poc %  . %  . %  . % u.s. workforce, white %  . % not disclosed not disclosed poc - female %  . %  . %  . % poc - male %  . %  . %  . % asian %  . %  . % not disclosed black %  . %  . % not disclosed hispanic/latino %  . %  . % not disclosed note:	race/ethnicity 	and	gender 	percentages	are	based	on	employee	self-identification	in	hershey’s	hr	data	system	as	of	december 	 ,	 .	data	in	this	table	does	not	include	hershey’s	recent	acquisition	of	pretzels,	inc.	 u.s. non-management unit       total non-management as percentage of total workforce %  . %  . %  . % non-management	–	female %  . %  . %  . % non-management	–	male %  . %  . %  . % non-management	–	poc %  . %  . %  . % non-management	–	female	–	poc %  . %  . %  . % non-management	–	male	–	poc %  . %  . %  . % non-management	–	 asian %  . %  . % not disclosed non-management	–	black %  . %  . % not disclosed non-management	–	hispanic/latino %  . %  . % not disclosed note:	race/ethnicity 	and	gender 	percentages	are	based	on	employee	self-identification	in	hershey’s	hr	data	system	as	of	december 	 ,	 .	data	in	this	table	does	not	include	hershey’s	recent	acquisition	of	pretzels,	inc.	 kpis the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report u.s. management unit       total management as percentage of total workforce %  . %  . %  . % management	–	female %  . %  . %  . % management	–	male %  . %  . %  . % management	–	poc %  . %  . %  . % management	–	female	–	poc %  . %  . %  . % management	–	male	–	poc %  . %  . %  . % management	–	 asian %  . %  . % not disclosed management	–	black %  . %  . % not disclosed management	–	hispanic/latino %  . %  . % not disclosed note:   management level data includes hershey people leaders or employees at an internal pay band level of  b or higher. this data is not mutually exclusive and overlaps with some headcount also included in the senior leader level  data	below,	 which	includes	employees	at	an	internal	pay 	band	level	of	 b	or 	higher.  race/ethnicity 	and	gender 	percentages	are	based	on	employee	self-identification	in	hershey’s	hr	data	system	as	of	december 	 ,	 .	data	in	this	table	does	not	include	hershey’s	recent	acquisition	of	pretzels,	inc.	 u.s.  senior leader unit       total senior leader as percentage of total workforce %  . %  . %  . % senior	leader	–	female %  . %  . %  . % senior	leader	–	male %  . %  . %  . % senior	leader	–	poc %  . %  . %  . % senior	leader	–	female	–	poc %  . %  . %  . % senior	leader	–	male	–	poc %  . %  . %  . % senior	leader	–	asian %  . %  . %  . % senior	leader	–	black %  . %  . %  . % senior	leader	–	hispanic/latino %  . %  . %  . % note:  senior	leader	level	data	includes	hershey 	people	leaders	or 	employees	at	an	internal	pay 	band	level	of	 b	or 	higher.	this	data	is	not	mutually 	exclusive	and	overlaps	 with	some	headcount	also	included	in	the	management	level	 data above, which includes employees at an internal pay band level of  b or higher. race/ethnicity 	and	gender 	percentages	are	based	on	employee	self-identification	in	hershey’s	hr	data	system	as	of	december 	 ,	 .	data	in	this	table	does	not	include	hershey’s	recent	acquisition	of	pretzels,	inc.	 proportion of senior management hired from the local community %  . %  . %  . % note:    	local	employees	/ 	total	external	hires	at	significant	locations).  “senior	management”	is	defined	as	individuals	hired	as	senior 	manager 	and	above	(up	to	senior 	vice	president	 within	the	c-suite).  “local”	is	defined	as	a	permanent	resident	at	time	of	hire	in	one	of	the	following	locations	in	the	usa:	pennsylvania,	new 	jersey,	new 	york,	ohio,	 west	virginia,	 virginia,	maryland,	district	of	columbia	and	delaware.  “significant	locations	of	operation”	is	defined	as	the	following	locations:	 	east	office,	 amplify	 	east	office,	 annville	fulfillment	center,	hazleton	plant,	hbg	intl	 airport	flt	ops,	hcw 	visitors	center,	licensingco	 	east	 office,	reese	plant,	sales	co	hcw 	visitors	center,	sales	co	office	northeast,	salesco	 	east	office,	sourcing	co	 	east	office,	sourcing	co	 tech	center,	stuarts	draft	plant,	 technical	center,	 west	hershey 	plant	and	 y&s	 lancaster plant. kpis the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report executive team unit       total executive team %	of	total	 workforce  . %  . %  . % females on executive team # of females       executive	team	–	female %  . %  . %  . % executive	team	–	male %  . %  . %  . % executive	team	–	poc #       executive	team	–	poc %  . %  . %  . % executive team - female - poc %  . %  . %  . % executive team - male - poc %  . %  . %  . % note:   the executive team includes employees who report to hershey’s ceo, including the ceo.  race/ethnicity 	and	gender 	percentages	are	based	on	employee	self-identification	in	hershey’s	hr	data	system	as	of	december 	 ,	 .	data	in	this	table	does	not	include	hershey’s	recent	acquisition	of	pretzels,	inc.	   q  global employee engagement resultsglobal  enterpriseage/generation gender (global) boomer gen x gen y gen z male female employee engagement (enps)               intent to stay  %  %  %  %  %  %  % expectations (meet/exceed)  %  %  %  %  %  %  % note:	this	employee	engagement	data	represents	results	from	 the	hershey 	company's	 	q 	continuous	listening	survey,	 which	included	both	salaried	and	hourly 	hershey 	employees.   q  u.s. employee engagement results by race/ethnicity asian black latino  or more race/ ethnicities white employee engagement (enps)           intent to stay  %  %  %  %  % expectations (meet/exceed)  %  %  %  %  % note:	this	employee	engagement	data	represents	results	from	 the	hershey 	company's	 	q 	continuous	listening	survey,	 which	included	both	salaried	and	hourly 	hershey 	employees. the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report parental leave      female male total female male total female male total entitled to parental leave                   took intermittent leave                   took continuous leave                   employees who did not elect                   returned to work                   return to work rate  %  %  %  %  %  %  %  %  % note:	we	adhere	to	all	relevant	laws	and	regulations	for 	maternity 	and	paternity 	leave	globally.	outside	of	the	u.s.	individual	instances	of	parental	leave	are	monitored;	however,	they 	are	not	aggregated.	 there	are	no	specific	plans	to	aggregate	this	data. pathways to join unit       notes diverse candidate slates %	  % not available not available   total	search	 volume	led	by 	diverse-owned	firms %  % not available not available    	goal	is	 %   goal	is	 % supplier diversity unit       notes total spent with diverse suppliers usd (in millions) $  $  not available   proportion of spending on local suppliers %  %  %  %    	in	 ,	we	established	a	goal	to	increase	our 	spend	with	diverse	suppliers	to	$ 	million	by 	 .		our 	 	total	spend	 was	originally 	disclosed	as	$ 	million.		 this	value	has	been	restated	as	 we	became	aware	of	a	cocoa	 supplier	who	meets	our 	definition	for 	diverse	suppliers,	 who	had	not	been	included	previously.   these results show the percentage of our procurement budget spent on local suppliers based in the same country as the hershey facility to which they were supplying goods or services. note:   diverse	spend	includes	formal	industry-recognized	certification	and	self-certification,	and	 tier	 	and	tier	 	spend	 with	u.s.-based	suppliers.	diverse	suppliers	refers	to	businesses	that	are	 %	owned,	managed	and	controlled	by 	women	and/or 	 black, hispanic, asian, indigenous, u.s. military veteran, lgbtq+ and disabled persons, or other individuals that qualify as socio-economically disadvantaged.kpis kpis the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report pathways to grow unit       online and classroom training courses available for employees # of courses  ,   ,  not available unconscious bias training completed # of hours  ,   ,  not available discussion related to unconscious bias training completed # of hours    ,  not available business resource groups (brgs) # of brgs     not available average hours of training per year  per employee      unit female male total female male total female male total total # of hours  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  full-time # of hours  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  part-time # of hours  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  note:	the	average	hours	of	training	shown	above	are	based	only 	on	training	hours	logged	through	hershey’s	learning	and	development	program.	 these	hours	do	not	account	for 	outside	team	or 	individual	training	programs	not	offered	through	hershey’s	centralized	system. new employees hired      # employees rate (%) # employees rate (%) # employees rate (%) new employees hired  ,   ,  not disclosed age group 	<     . %    . %    . % 	 -   ,   . %  ,   . %  ,   . % 	 -   ,   . %  ,   . %  ,   . % 	 -   ,   . %  ,   . %    . % 	 -     . %    . %    . % 	 +    . %    . %    . % gender  male  ,   . %  ,   . %  ,   . %  female  ,   . %  ,   . %  ,   . % region  asia    . %    . %    . %  north america  ,   . %  ,   . %  ,   . %  europe    . %    . %    . % latin america and the caribbean  ,   . %  ,   . %  ,   . % note:   this employee data does not include hershey’s recent acquisition of pretzels.    in	some	instances,	the	hire	rate	may 	be	more	than	 %.	 this	is	largely 	attributed	to	seasonal	part-time	employment.  new employee hire and turnover data for mexico is included in the latin america and caribbean region. kpis the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report employee turnover      # employees rate (%) # employees rate (%) # employees rate (%) employee turnover  ,   ,  not disclosed age group 	<     . %    . %    . % 	 -   ,   . %  ,   . %  ,   . % 	 -   ,   . %  ,   . %  ,   . % 	 -   ,   . %  ,   . %    . % 	 -     . %    . %    . % 	 +    . %    . %    . % gender male  ,   . %  ,   . %  ,   . % female  ,   . %  ,   . %  ,   . % region  asia    . %    . %    . %  north america  ,   . %  ,   . %  ,   . %  europe    . %    . %    . % latin america and the caribbean  ,   . %  ,   . %  ,   . % note:   this employee data does not include hershey’s recent acquisition of pretzels.  in	some	instances,	the	turnover 	rate	may 	be	more	than	 %.	 this	is	largely 	attributed	to	seasonal	part-time	employment.  new employee hire and turnover data for mexico is included in the latin america and caribbean region. safety unit       total recordable incident rate (trir) rate  .   .   .  days away, restricted, transferred (dart) #  .   .   .  lost workday incident rate (lwir) rate  .   .   .  fatalities (work-related) #       note:	our 	rates	have	been	calculated	on	a	per 	 , -hours-worked	basis.	 we	meet	all	regulatory 	record-keeping	and	reporting	requirements	for 	work-related	injuries.	our 	statistics	include	all	 workers	who	are	not	employees	 but whose work is controlled by our organization.  we do not track metrics for contractors: each contractor company is responsible for gathering this information and reporting it according to local requirements. youth connecting kids to brighter futures is part of  our dna and a source of pride here at hershey.  every child deserves the chance to reach their  full potential. from the moment milton hershey founded a school for  orphaned	boys	in	 ,	 we've	been	guided	by 	a	vision	 to help children thrive. we do that by investing to help  children thrive, including their social emotional well-being,  education and nutrition.   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the hershey company   esg reportproviding education  and opportunity hershey honors business program students at mhs make real-world connections through  the hershey honors business program, which includes  business-focused mentoring and coaching from hershey  employees.	during	this	five-month	program,	employees	 serve as guest teachers on various business topics and  evaluate	students’	final	presentations in	 which	they 	pitch	 their own unique business ideas. at the conclusion of the   	program,	 	honor 	students	presented	their 	ideas	to	 ceo michele buck and other hershey leaders. proposals  included a new product (a kit kat® bar-dipped pretzel),  using meditation to improve employee well-being and  performance, and potential acquisition targets to empower  women-owned businesses. project fellowship  hershey employees and their families take part in monthly  activities and fun with mhs student homes through our  project fellowship program, which seeks to connect mhs  students with caring connections across their broader  community.	in	 ,	 	hershey 	company 	employees	 participated	in	regular 	activities	 with	 	student	homes.	through top-notch academics, personal  attention and character development,  milton hershey school provides all of its  students, pre-k through  th grade, the  opportunity to succeed. milton hershey school (mhs) is a place where high- potential disadvantaged students receive a life-changing  opportunity of an excellent private education, thanks to  our shared founder who created this early social enterprise.  milton hershey bequeathed his ownership of the hershey  company to milton hershey school trust (mhs trust), with  mhs	as	the	sole	beneficiary.	 the	mhs	 trust	continues	to	 be hershey’s largest shareholder and receives a substantial  portion of the dividends we pay each year. this unique  relationship	means	that	hershey’s	success	directly 	benefits	 the	school	and	more	than	 , 	students.	in	addition,	our 	 employees have the opportunity to participate in unique  volunteer programs with mhs that foster connection and  community 	with	the	students	and	staff.  mhs students achieved state- recognized pre-apprenticeship  certifications after teaching an advertising  class to the business honors  cohort, it was such a powerful,  full-circle moment to watch the  students present their final  presentations, while referencing  some of the topics we discussed,  such as social media channels  and demographic targets.” nomblé coleman, manager, omnichannel marketing,  the hershey company    contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report  providing education and opportunity   continued case study the hershey company   esg report supporting students in honor of william e. dearden our company collaborated with the mhs alumni  association and the william e. dearden foundation  to	create	the	first-ever 	dearden	foundation	and	 the	 hershey company joint scholarship for continuing  education,	 which	was	announced	in	 	as	part	of	the	 company’s stuarts draft, virginia, manufacturing facility’s   th	anniversary 	celebration.	 this	scholarship,	 which	 will be awarded to two students in the stuarts draft area,  continues the legacy of one of mhs’s most beloved alumni,  william e. dearden. mr. dearden was a graduate of milton  hershey school and went on to work not only at the school  but	also	at	 the	hershey 	company 	in	 .	mr.	dearden’s	 career at the hershey company spanned decades, and he  was	appointed	ceo	in	 .	mr.	dearden’s	legacy 	lives	on	 through the dearden foundation’s support of alumni from  the milton hershey school and of continuing education,  leadership and character development opportunities for  youth across hershey communities.  → learn more in the community chapter beginning on page  .  what’s next • continue to strengthen our relationship with mhs on  career preparation and pathways to employment • expand the william e. dearden foundation and hershey  company joint scholarship for continuing education to  additional u.s. manufacturing communities • maintain ongoing support of connection and well-being  for youthtwelve mhs students launched their careers by earning  pennsylvania state-recognized pre-apprenticeship  certifications	in	manufacturing.	 these	students	completed	 a	two-week 	certificate	program	taught	in	collaboration	 with the manufacturers’ association and the hershey  company 	that	exposed	them	to	the	different	skill	sets	 necessary 	to	succeed	in	the	field	of	manufacturing.	 students explored topics such as blueprint reading and  shop math to lean manufacturing, food safety and quality  control, in addition to earning their occupational safety  and	health	 administration	 	certification,	designating	the	 completion	of	 	hours	of	training. through	classroom	and	 hands-on learning, this opportunity debunks myths about  the	field	and	helps	students	gain	a	realistic	understanding	 of manufacturing and available career options. this and  other mhs programs showcase our commitment to youth  and	amplifies	our 	talent	development	efforts.	based	on	 the	positive	outcomes,	 we	plan	to	enroll	 	students	in	this	 program	in	 . allowing students to earn a  state-recognized pre- apprenticeship certificate in  manufacturing exposes them  to this vast career field. the    students who completed this  program have shown real  initiative. i have no doubt that  the skills they learned will fit  well into the real world.” sheila ciotti, mhs director of college  and career readiness and supportapprentice  program  launches  careers   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report case study the hershey company   esg reportthe heartwarming  project the loneliness epidemic is fueling  a mental health crisis, as young  people today report feeling lonelier  than any other generation,  and  teens struggle with stress, anxiety  and other mental health challenges.  research has shown  that increasing social and  emotional skills, such as practicing empathy and  inclusion, and fostering meaningful connections  with peers, adults and the community, can make all  the	difference	for 	improving	 youth	outcomes	and	 well-being. our heartwarming project (hwp) is  designed to help kids and teens build critical social  and emotional skills and celebrate the power of  connection for their well-being. we also work with  nonprofit	partners	to	inspire,	encourage	and	highlight	 young people who take action to create more  inclusive, empathetic communities.  → for a summary of our heartwarming project data,  see page  .heartwarming  project action grants our support enabled the we well-being  program	to	provide	more	than	 , 	 teachers	a	 variety	of	resources,	including	k- 	 lesson plans focused on social, emotional and  service learning, a professional development  video series, a pbs x we animated series  with science-based tools and activities, and  activity cards and downloadable classroom  resources. in addition, hershey partnered with  we to co-sponsor the heartwarming project  action grants program,	 which	awarded	 	 action grants to teens sparking connection and  inclusion in their schools and communities,  including	two	profiled	below.	it isn’t what you  leave your  children but how  you leave them.” milton hershey  acts of kindness along with his brother, arizona student  pravneet founded project smile az,  an initiative to spread kindness in the  community by encouraging other  youth — who they call smile-makers —  to give back in any way they can. since  the project started, smile-makers have  crafted handmade cards for people in the  hospital, veterans and people experiencing  homelessness, donated gently used books  and much more. last year, pravneet ran a  book drive to support afghanistan refugees  in his community. with a heartwarming  project action grant, pravneet was able  to purchase supplies for his initiatives like  book bags and handmade cards, helping  spread messages of kindness even further.  books for kids of color  six years ago, florida student chase and his  little	brother 	created	a	nonprofit	called	eco	 brothers	that	rescued	books	from	landfills	 to donate to kids in need. since starting  eco brothers, they donated more than   , 	books	to	kids	in	 title	 	schools.	 along the way, they realized that the kids  to whom they were donating books weren’t  always represented in the characters and  stories. so they began fundraising in order  to purchase a wider range of books that  kept diversity in mind, ensuring that all  kids	could	find	a	book 	in	which	they 	could	 see themselves. with support from a  heartwarming project action grant, chase  can now help more kids access books in  which they can see themselves.my goal is a simple  math equation:  individual small acts of  kindness multiplied by  thousands of people  equals thousands of  acts of kindness!”  pravneet  	loneliness is at epidemic levels in america | cigna.   loneliness and social isolation as risk factors for mortality |  perspectives on psychological science.   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report case study the hershey company   esg report heartwarming  y oung heroes  as part of global youth service day, we sponsored youth  service america’s heartwarming young heroes grants  program,	 which	engaged	more	than	 , 	 youth	in	 	 projects worldwide. project topics included promoting  inclusion, celebrating diverse cultures, and building racial  equity as well as teaching empathy, protecting mental  health and creating kinder communities, among others.  we	profile	two	award	 winners	below.political pen pals debby c., age  , oakland, california debby,	a	first	generation	 american,	launched	a	pen	pal	 project	to	pair 	 	high	school	students	 with	different	 political ideologies to have open-minded conversations,  combat political divisiveness and build empathy with one  another. participants built friendships with someone they  otherwise would not have known. in the process, they  gained a greater understanding about various political  and social topics in a safe, nonjudgmental atmosphere.  in a follow-up survey, students shared that participating  in political pen pals gave them a new understanding and  perspective about an issue. for debby, acknowledging  the diversity and complexity in various perspectives can  help promote inclusion, understanding and empathy, and  encourage people to be civically engaged. y oung men planting seeds chase t., age  , st. petersburg, florida chase saw major changes to his south st. petersburg  community, including the closure of two grocery stores,  which turned the area into a food desert. chase recruited  volunteers to plant and provide fresh vegetables for  approximately 	 	members	of	the	community.	 while	 chase loved the ability to grow food for his neighbors, he  was equally excited for the indirect impact of his project:  youth and adults engaged with one another in meaningful  discussions about food access, youth valued their ability to  see how they have a stake in the community, and the event  led to cleanups across wider south st. petersburg.    contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the heartwarming project   continued the hershey company   esg reportinspiring kids through athletics during	the	second	 year	of	our sweeter 	together 	 project with bgc canada, we helped to refurbish  four basketball	courts,	provided	 	new 	backboards	 and	nets,	and	issued	 , 	team	kits	 with	hershey- inspired gear to club kids through the buy a bar, build  a court program.  hershey proudly continued its partnership with usa  track and field, sponsoring the runjumpthrow  program.	 this	provided	over 	 , 	participants	the	 opportunity to move, have fun, and learn track and  field	fundamentals	 via	one-day 	events,	six-week 	 programs, and special experiences with olympic  and elite athletes. this program has reached nearly   , 	kids	since	it	first	launched	 with	our	support	 in	 .supporting caring connections to meet the critical need to support the social and  emotional well-being of young people, we continued  working with a range of partners who provide opportunities  for connection, inclusion and belonging. here are some  highlights	from	 . • with hershey’s support, crisis text line created its  first-ever 	mental health school supplies toolkit, with  downloadable posters, coping resources, and social  assets for teens to share with their peers online in both  english and spanish. hershey’s collaboration also directly  supported	nearly 	 , 	text	conversations	 with	youth	 seeking mental health support from crisis text line.  • more	than	 , 	teens	from	across	the	u.s.	took 	action	 in	their	communities	through	the boys & girls clubs  of america’s keystone clubs. with hershey’s support  for local clubs in puerto rico; lancaster, pennsylvania;  denver, colorado; and rochester, new york, youth  practiced leadership, built character and made a  difference	in	their 	club	and	communities.	for 	example,	 after	devastating	 wildfires	came	 within	 	miles	of	their 	 club, members of the boys & girls clubs of metro denver  decided	to	create	 wildfire	education	tools	to	help	children	 better understand the issue and feel less afraid. after  researching the topic, they created visual aids and an  interactive	game	to	illustrate	how 	fires	spread	and	how 	to	 stay safe, sharing it with younger children and starting a  community 	dialogue	on	how 	to	reduce	the	threat	of	fires.• we continued our partnership with innerview , a service  learning	app	used	by 	 	schools	across	the	u.s.	 to	engage	over 	 , 	kids	 who	took 	part	in	nearly 	  , 	service	activities.	students	forged	meaningful	 connections as they created cards for hospitalized  kids, hosted intergenerational events, mentored other  students and led clubs focused on diversity, inclusion  and cross-cultural understanding and mental well-being  in	their	schools.	hershey’s	 	dedicated	 - 	 heartwarming project youth advisory board members  invested	more	than	 , 	service	hours	in	their 	schools.	 belonging, not bullying to counteract the prevalence of bullying, we sponsor  an annual sweeter together  project with bgc  canada (formerly boys and girls club of canada). the  high point of our partnership with bgc is pink shirt  day , when we help clubs celebrate a day dedicated  to anti-bullying and support children’s well-being.  hershey’s support included disseminating activation  toolkits for clubs to encourage youth to be kind and  create cultures of belonging where they live. our  support	also	provided	grants	to	 	clubs	to	run	their 	 own pink shirt day activities.  ,  hershey’s collaboration  directly supported nearly  ,   text conversations with youth  seeking mental health support  from crisis text linethe heartwarming project   continued   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the hershey company   esg reportgoals   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the heartwarming project unit       children reached through the heartwarming project (hwp) partnerships # of children  , ,   , ,   , ,  youth	directly 	benefiting	from	hwp 	investments # of youth  ,   ,   ,  youth taking part in heartwarming actions # of youth  ,   ,   , our progress yo u t h target y earprogress (as of dec.  ,   ) goal status notes   million children globally supported through education, nutrition, and social  and emotional well-being   .  million on track    ,  children take heartwarming actions and impact their communities    ,  achieved    	more	than	 . 	million	children	 were	supported,	cumulatively 	from	january	 ,	 	to	december 	 ,	 .   more	than	 , 	children	took 	action	and	impacted	their 	communities,	cumulatively 	from	january	 ,	 	to	december 	 ,	 . kpis community hershey employees take great pride in living our  value of making a difference. we all carry on milton  hershey’s legacy of kindness, support and showing  up in our communities. we strive to enhance the places where we live and work  through programs that support basic needs, education and  workforce development, and advance inclusive community  economic development.  in addition to our philanthropic giving and product- donation programs, our remarkable people show up for  their communities in many ways, volunteering hundreds  of thousands of hours each year for the causes they  care about. our approach is to ask what each community needs from  us and	then	to	find	a	 way	to	answer 	that	need.    contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report working together for  stronger communities since our founding, hershey has been committed to  supporting the communities where our employees live  and work. we provide both philanthropic contributions  and	product	donations	to	nonprofit	organizations	in	 communities where we have a presence. in many instances,  we achieve even greater impact by pairing these donations  with employee volunteering.  we do not maintain a corporate foundation; instead, we  direct a portion of our annual consolidated net sales to  community 	philanthropic	endeavors.	in	 ,	 we	made	 contributions	that	approximated	 . %	of	our 	annual	net	 sales,	an	increase	from	 . %	in	 .	 the	company’s	giving	 guidelines, criteria and application portal are published  on our website, and we use these criteria when assessing  requests for both cash grants and product donations. our	long-standing	philanthropy 	and	volunteerism	efforts	 are managed by our global sustainability team, who  works closely with counterparts in each of our plant and  office	locations	across	the	u.s.	and	globally 	to	identify 	 local community needs and craft tailored approaches to  provide support. this work includes forging partnerships  with local non-governmental organizations (ngos),  providing grants and contributions, and organizing  volunteer 	service activities	and	employee	fundraisers.	 we	 encourage all grantees to provide impact reports with both  quantitative and qualitative data, and host annual meetings  with	ngo	partners	to	evaluate	the	effectiveness	of	our 	 philanthropic investments.when we all pitch in to make  a difference, our shared  communities flourish. in  :  helping employees give back hershey has long supported the causes important to  our employees through our matching gifts program  and workplace-giving campaigns, described below.  for	example,	 we	matched	more	than	$ . 	million	in	 employee	donations	to	nonprofit	organizations	in	 .	 • matching	gift	program:	up	to	$ , 	match	per 	 employee for charitable donations each calendar year • season	of	giving	campaign:	up	to	$ , 	match	per 	 employee for payroll deductions each calendar year • dollars	for 	doers	program:	$ 	donation	to	an	 employee’s	nonprofit	of	choice	after 	they	log	 	hours	 of volunteer service in a calendar year • employee volunteerism policy: employees receive up  to	two	days	of	paid	time	off	to	 volunteer celebrating in stuarts draft, virginia built	in	 ,	the	stuarts	draft	plant	has	seen	significant	 growth and expansion throughout the decades. over   , 	employees	are	now 	the	makers	of	more	than	 a dozen beloved brands produced at the plant. in  celebration	of	the	plant’s	 th	anniversary,	employees,	 retirees and families gathered for a day of festivities. the  company also announced a new initiative in partnership  with the william e. dearden foundation, which will  annually 	provide	$ , 	scholarships	to	two	high	school	 seniors pursuing continuing education opportunities  such	as	a	two-	or 	four-year 	degree,	a	trade	certification,	 professional license or an apprenticeship program. a  distinguished and highly respected alumnus of milton  hershey school, mr. dearden served as former chairman  of the board of the hershey company and oversaw the  construction of the hershey plant in stuarts draft.  → see supporting students in honor of william e. dearden on  page   for more information about mr. dearden’s legacy  with milton hershey school . + grants awarded to  nonprofit organizations   more than  %   of hershey’s corporate  grants supported  children and youth   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report supporting our u.s. communities  hershey’s corporate giving program focuses on  strengthening communities where we operate by  supporting basic needs, education and workforce  development, and by supporting a range of cultural  programs, events and activities that bring our  communities together 	and	make	them	more	inclusive. supporting our bilingual community in hazleton,  pennsylvania as the city of hazleton, pennsylvania, has adapted to a  growing latino population over the past decade, hershey  has sought to invest in this changing community. we  deepened our partnership with the hazleton integration  project (hip) by supporting the after-school, early  childhood and adult workforce development programs  delivered at its hazleton one community center. this  center	provides english	as	a	second	language	(esl)	and	 citizenship classes as well as job training programs for  latino community members. our partnership with hip has  been	critical	to	our 	efforts	to	support	our 	first	completely 	 bilingual	facility 	in	the	u.s.	 with	jobs	for 	 	spanish- speaking employees.  → learn more in hershey says hola to hispanic workers in  hazleton, pa on page  . expanding outreach in memphis, tennessee hershey’s memphis team deepened its support for several  longtime partners including the career and technical  education programs at kingsbury high school, to advance  local workforce development goals and pipelines to  manufacturing. the company also supported investments  in children’s health with support for st. jude’s and  lebonheurs children’s hospitals, and provided monetary,  in-kind and volunteer support for feed the needy’s easter  and thanksgiving food outreach programs. the memphis  team also supported memphis music initiative’s creative  youth development programs by participating in career  exploration activities with local youth in collaboration with  our kit kat® and hershey’s brand teams as part of the black  music month campaign.  → learn more in celebrating black music month with  the memphis music initiative on page  .  investing in brighter futures in robinson, illinois  hershey’s robinson plant employees joined a community- wide	effort	to	improve	affordable	child	care	availability 	 in crawford county, illinois, committing seed funding to  construct	a	nonprofit	child	care	center,	a	hub	for 	early	 childhood education resources, and other support services  for families with young children. hershey also continued  support for the construction of the county’s long-awaited  recreation center and educational initiatives with united  way to support high school students. our headquarters region in addition to supporting a range of local organizations,  hershey proudly committed leadership support to capital  campaign projects across central pennsylvania. to address  the rising needs of veterans experiencing homelessness  and other challenges, hershey provided a lead gift to  veterans outreach of pa, which is working to build a  tiny house community supporting homeless veterans.  combined	 with	our	veterans	brg’s	fundraising	efforts,	 hershey	provided	this	group	 with	$ , 	in	funding. in	 ,	hershey 	also	committed	$ , 	to	the	cocoa	 packs capital campaign. learn more in cocoa packs on  page	 .	 this	year	also	marked	the	grand	opening	of	 several projects supported by hershey over the past few  years, including the dauphin county mccormick library  expansion project, the new derry township community  center and the penn state health children’s hospital  expansion. hershey’s support for  the u.s. military dates  back to world war i  when hershey provided  milk chocolate bars  to american soldiers.  today, we are proud to  have veterans from the  u.s. military and other  countries throughout  hershey – from  executive leadership to  the manufacturing line  floor and every function  in between.”  steve voskuil, chief financial officer,  the hershey company   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report working together for stronger communities  continued continuing our support for social justice in the u.s. hershey maintained steadfast support for a range of  organizations working toward social justice, equity and  inclusion across our communities. we deepened our  support for ywca lancaster’s center for racial and  gender	equity	and	its efforts	to	support	 women	in	need	 across central pennsylvania. we also continued our  long-time partnerships with the national association for  the advancement of colored people’s (naacp) afro- academic,	cultural,	 technological	and	scientific	olympics	 in greater harrisburg, pennsylvania, with members  of our african american brg lending their time and  expertise to the student competitors. we also continued  our collaboration with the thurgood marshall college  foundation (tmcf).  → learn more about our work with tmcf in investing  in food science students on page  .  hershey	also	continued	support	for 	the	nonprofit	 embracerace, which helps parents, teachers and other  caregivers of children as they work to raise children who  are	brave,	thoughtful	and	informed	about	race.	in	 ,	 our support helped the organization with the development  of	its	first	set	of	caregiver 	action	guides,	 which	provide	 helpful	hints and	ideas	for 	issues	relating	to	race	and	racial	 justice for families. in addition to our monetary support,  our employees volunteered their time to help beta-test the  guides with their own children and provide feedback on  their experience.transferring a  treasured landmark in	 ,	hershey 	donated	the	historic	hershey 	theatre	to	 the m.s. hershey foundation. originally built during milton  s.	hershey’s	great	building	campaign	in	the	 s,	the	 theatre has been an architectural and cultural jewel for the  small	town	of	hershey 	since	its	doors	opened	in	 .	 today,	 it is a prominent venue for touring broadway shows, world- class musicians, and comedians, and is regarded as one of  pennsylvania’s	finest	performing	arts	 venues.	by 	donating	 the property to the m.s. hershey foundation, which exists  to preserve the cultural legacy of mr. hershey and provide  educational and cultural opportunities for the community,  the hershey company is ensuring the landmark remains a  unique cultural resource to the community and region for  generations to come. case study   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report working together for stronger communities  continued   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report creating a world of good our international teams share goodness  through philanthropy, volunteerism and  product donations. caring around the world canada hershey canada employees volunteered and made  monetary donations to food banks canada, donated  gently used clothes and school supplies, cleaned up local  parks and donated to their local ronald mcdonald house.  the team also continued to support bgc canada and its  efforts	to	support	child	 well-being.	 → learn more in belonging, not bullying on page  . mexico our monterrey, mexico, plant supported the naandi  children’s home, which serves young children and  teenage girls by developing a baking program to generate  revenue for the organization via cookie sales. the team  trained	the	 young	chefs	on	topics	including	finance,	 packaging,	quality,	safety 	and	first	aid,	and	made	a	 monetary and product donation of chocolate chips and  other	ingredients	to	jump-start	the	entrepreneurial	efforts.	 the	team	outfitted	the	organization’s	pastry 	workshop	 with new stainless steel equipment and pastry utensils for  baking. the team continued its support of naandi during  the holidays, providing gifts and additional donations of  cash and products to support the organization.  the philippines employees with hershey’s global business services team  in manila collected and donated food, personal hygiene  items and monetary donations to the san lorenzo home  for the elderly including a sweet treat — hershey’s kisses  milk chocolate with almonds.korea hershey	korea	kicked	off	a	partnership	 with	lifeline	korea,	 a	nonprofit	focused	on	suicide	prevention	and	awareness	 and	offers	help	to	families	impacted	by 	loss.	the	team	made	 a monetary donation and participated in the organization’s  out of the darkness run. hershey korea also supported  anna’s house, an ngo that helps teens facing poverty and  homelessness with food and mental healthcare in seoul.  malaysia hershey malaysia continued its longtime partnership with  sk	taman	daya,	a	primary 	school	for 	children	ages	 - 	to	 set up a hershey garden in celebration of earth day and  its ongoing sustainability education initiatives. the team  also celebrated world children’s day with the school  by leading environmental sustainability activities and  providing product donations for the children. the team also  sponsored a vaccination event that supplied pneumococcal  vaccines to citizens in rural and remote areas, providing  hershey products for this community health initiative.    the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report tackling hunger head on we help more children around the world go to  school in the morning and to bed at night with  more goodness inside.  in	the	u.s.,	households	 with	children	are	more	than	 . 	 times more likely to face hunger than households without  children.  in	communities	across	our 	raw	ingredient	supply 	 chain, that number is far higher.  combating hunger  and food scarcity is one way we address our material  issue of supporting the well-being of the people in our  communities. wherever hershey has a presence, whether  in	central	pennsylvania	or 	côte	d'ivoire,	 africa,	we	strive	to	 bring more moments of goodness where it is needed most.  cocoa packs cocoa packs is a hunger and community outreach  organization	that	serves	more	than	 , 	children	in	 	 school districts surrounding our corporate headquarters.  each week, students and families in need across central  pennsylvania receive bags of nutritious food to help combat  food insecurity. to expand the reach of this program and  support its exponential growth in recent years, cocoa packs  announced a capital campaign to raise $  million to build  and	operate	a	new 	 , 	square	foot	food	distribution	 and community center in hummelstown, pennsylvania.  the site will serve as the main cocoa packs facility and will  include a teaching kitchen and community garden. once  completed	in	 ,	the	facility 	will	increase	cocoa	packs’	 capacity 	to	serve	children	in	five	surrounding	counties,	as	 well as provide vital resources to improve the overall health  and well-being of youth. to augment community donations,  hershey	has	pledged	$ , 	over 	two	years.	we	have	 supported	cocoa	packs	since	it	 was	founded	in	 ,	and	 dozens of hershey employees regularly volunteer with  the organization.	feeding america hershey proudly continued its partnership with feeding  america by focusing on the intersection of children and  hunger, which aligns to our commitment to support  children in need and our desire to strengthen communities  where we operate. hershey’s support enabled feeding  america’s	ongoing	national	efforts	focused	on	child	hunger 	 by sponsoring a grant program for member food banks in  five	of	our 	u.s.	manufacturing	communities	across	four 	 states.	in	 ,	these	grants	served	more	than  , 	 children	in	more	than	 , 	families.	our 	support	 provided	more	than	 , 	meals	and	focused	on	meeting	 the needs of children and families where they were,  underwriting	programs	specifically 	designed	for 	at	home,	 after school, over weekends and vacations, and over the  summer through school pantry, summer meals, backpack  and kids café programs. partners in food solutions  each year, talented team members share their skills with  promising entrepreneurial food companies across sub- saharan africa. our people connect with small business  owners through partners in food solutions (pfs), a  nonprofit	 working	to	improve	food	security,	nutrition	and	 economic development in africa. since our partnership  began	in	 ,	hershey 	team	members	have	contributed	 nearly	 , 	hours	and	supported	 	different	clients,	  %	of	which	are	owned	or 	managed	by 	women.	by 	 sharing their 	knowledge,	our 	people	help	empower 	 entrepreneurs, improve	nutrition	and	strengthen	food	 value chains in africa.more than  % of total giving supported  organizations fighting hunger  and providing basic nutrition to  children and their families  	 	annual	report,	feeding america.   household	food	security 	in	the	united	states	in	  | usda.   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report giving back goodness pairing our corporate giving with employee  volunteerism in the communities where we live  and work helps us deliver more goodness. from using their expertise to providing hands-on support  for	community 	nonprofits,	hershey 	employees	have	a	 tradition of giving back.  → for a summary of our community giving and volunteering data,  see page  . good to give back month every year, hershey encourages employees to come  together to give back to their communities as volunteers.  during	our 	 	good	to	give	back 	month,	approximately 	  	employees	 volunteered	more	than	 , 	hours.	 • in conjunction with the announcement of our capital  campaign	investment	to	support	cocoa	packs,	 	 volunteers	donated	 	hours	at	the	 wednesday 	food	 distributions	and	 warehouse/clothing	centers	in	 	 • children preparing to enter kindergarten received school  and health supplies collected and sorted by employees  from our corporate headquarters as part of the united  way	of	lebanon	county’s	annual	stuff	the	bus	campaign • via virtual volunteering, employees wrote  encouragement cards to hospitalized children at penn  state milton s. hershey children’s hospital and other  area children’s hospitals • employees joined webinars to learn about rise against  hunger and partners in food solutions and joined virtual  brainstorming	sessions	to	support	embracerace’s	efforts	 in supporting parents and caregiverschildren’s miracle network in the u.s., we continued our partnership  with children’s miracle network (cmn),  donating	to	support	efforts	at	the	national	 level and at our corporate headquarters  in hershey, pennsylvania. over the past   	years,	hershey 	employees	have	raised	 more	than	$ 	million	in	support	of	cmn,	 and hershey continued support of cmn’s  educational equity scholarship at the penn  state college of medicine to decrease  disparities in pediatric care and supported  cmn’s child life program endowment.environmental philanthropy  and volunteerism to promote environmental stewardship in our farms,  public lands and communities, hershey provides funding  and maintains strategic partnerships with national,  regional and local groups including the arbor day  foundation, chesapeake bay foundation, the alliance  for the chesapeake bay, and other local environmental  conservancies and agricultural centers. many of our joint  initiatives focus on reforestation, restoring ecosystems and  biodiversity, and cultivating healthy soil and protection of  waterways. in nature, everything is connected, so these  efforts	often	provide	multiple	overlapping	benefits.	 they	 also	support	our 	priority	esg	goals.	during	our 	 	 good to give back month, hershey featured volunteer  opportunities with a range of our environmental partners,  supporting trail maintenance, community gardens, tree  plantings, and cleanup and restoration activities.  every year, members of our green teams join with other  employees, family and community members in projects  such as tree planting and cleanups to improve water quality,  cleaner air and create more natural spaces. for example, the  hershey malaysia team helped to build a hershey garden  at	a	local	school	and	planted	 	herbal	trees.	 they	also	 educated students about a sustainable lifestyle, distributed   	lunch	packs	and	donated	 	hershey's	stainless	steel	 drinking bottles along with hershey’s kisses chocolates.  elsewhere, volunteers from across the company cleaned  up litter in harrisburg, pennsylvania, performed trail  maintenance at the penn state milton s. hershey medical  center, and helped care for the hershey gardens and  hershey community garden.  → learn more about our green teams on page  .  , +   employee volunteers in     ,    employee volunteer hours in  case study goals kpis   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report community giving and volunteering unit       notes cash donations usd (in millions) $ .  $ .  $ .  — in-kind/product donations usd (in millions) $ .  $ .  $ .    annual net sales directed to community philanthropic endeavors %  . %  . % not available — employee volunteer hours # of hours  ,   ,   ,  — total employee volunteers during good to give back month # of employees    ,  not available — total organizations supported globally during good to give back month # of organizations     not available — total volunteer hours during good to give back month # of hours  ,   ,  not available —  	in	june	 ,	the	company 	entered	into	a	donation	 agreement	 with	hershey 	trust	company,	as	trustee	for 	the	m.s.	hershey 	foundation,	pursuant	to	 which	the	company 	donated	the	historical	hershey 	theatre	located	in	derry 	township,	 pennsylvania.our progress community target y earprogress (as of dec.  ,   ) goal status notes $  million donated in cash and products to community partners focused on  education, community economic development, inclusive communities and health and  human services where we live and work  $ .  million on track    	hershey	donated	nearly 	$ . 	million	in	cash	and	products	cumulatively 	from	january	 ,	 	to	december 	 ,	 . appendices   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report about this report hershey’s	 	esg	report	covers	our 	most	material	 esg topics and the issues where we can have the  greatest impact. this	esg	report	covers	the	 	calendar 	year,	which	is	 also	our	fiscal	year,	unless	otherwise	stated. all	financial	figures	are	reported	in	u.s.	dollars,	unless	 otherwise stated. where noted, select environmental data within this esg  report	has	been	 verified	by 	quantis,	an	independent	 verifier.	additional	environmental	data	has	received	limited	 assurance by ey. statements from both quantis and ey  may be found on the following pages.  disclosure transparency is essential to living our values and  operating responsibly, which is why we seek to provide the  greatest disclosure possible in our reports. to support our  commitment, we align to the following esg frameworks  and standards: • global reporting initiative (gri) in accordance with gri  universal standards  • sustainability accounting standards board (sasb)  • task force on climate-related financial disclosures  (tcfd) • united nations global compact (ungc) • un guiding principles reporting framework (ungprf) • un sustainable development goals (sdgs) additional esg-related policies and resources can  be found on our sustainability reports, policies and  resources webpage. we welcome any feedback you may have on our esg  disclosures.  please direct inquires to sustainability@hersheys.com .forward-looking statements hershey’s	 	esg	report	contains	certain	forward-	 looking statements within the meaning of the private  securities	litigation	reform	 act	of	 . many of these forward-looking statements can be  identified	by 	the	use	of	 words	such	as	“anticipate,”	 “assume,” “believe,” “continue,” “estimate,” “expect,”  “forecast,” “future,” “intend,” “plan,” “potential,” “predict,”  “project,” “strategy,” “target” and similar terms, and future  or conditional tense verbs like “could,” “may,” “might,”  “should,” “will” and “would,” among others. these forward-looking statements reflect our current  assumptions and expectations, including statements  regarding our environmental, social and governance  targets, goals, commitments and programs and other  business plans, initiatives and objectives. we are subject  to changing economic, competitive, regulatory and  technological risks and uncertainties that could have a  material impact on our actual future results. for information on factors that could cause our actual  results	to	differ 	materially 	from	the	forward-looking	 statements,	please	see	 the	hershey 	company’s	filings	 with	 the securities and exchange commission, including our  most	recent	annual	report	on	form	 -k 	and	subsequent	 reports	on	forms	 -q	and	 -k.	 the	hershey 	company 	 undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise  any forward-looking statements to reflect actual results,  changes in expectations or events or circumstances after  the date of this esg report.   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report our company the hershey company is headquartered in hershey, pa.,  and is an industry-leading snacks company known for  bringing goodness to the world through our iconic brands,  remarkable people and enduring commitment to help  children	succeed.	hershey 	has	approximately 	 , 	 employees around the world who work every day to deliver  delicious, quality products. our company has more than   	brand	names	in	approximately 	 	countries	around	the	 world	that	drive	more	than	$ 	billion	in	annual	revenues,	 including the iconic hershey’s, reese’s, kit kat®, jolly  rancher and ice breakers brand names, and fast-growing  salty snacks including skinnypop, pirate's booty and  dot's homestyle pretzels brands. for	more	than	 	 years,	hershey 	has	been	committed	to	 operating fairly, ethically and sustainably. hershey founder,  milton	hershey,	created	milton	hershey 	school	in	 	and	 since then the company has focused on helping children  succeed. → to learn more visit, www.thehersheycompany.com        a member firm of ernst & young global limited  ernst & young llp   one commerce square   suite       market street   philadelphia, pa     tel: +          fax: +          ey.com     independent accountants ’ review report   to the management of  the hershey company   we have reviewed the hershey company ’s (“hershey”) s chedule of select sustainability indicators  (the  “subject matter”) included in appendix a for the year ended december  ,   in accordance with the criteria   also set forth in appendix a  (the “criteria”). hershey’s management  is responsible for the subject matter in  accordance with the criteria. ou r responsibility is to express a conclusion on the subject matter based on our  review.   our review was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the american institute of  certified public accountants (aicpa)  at-c section  , concept s common to all attestation engagements ,  and at-c section   , review engagements . those standards require that we plan and perform our re view to  obtain limited assurance about whether any material modifications should be made to the subject matter in order  for it to be in accordance with the criteria.  the procedures performed in a  review vary in nature and timing from  and are substantially less in extent than, an examination, the objective of which is to obtain reasonable assurance  about whether  the subject matter  is in accordance with the criteria, in all material respects, in order to express  an opinion. accordingly, we do not express such  an opinion. because of the limited nature of the engagement,  the level of assurance obtained in a review is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been  obtained had an examination been performed. as such, a review does not provide assuranc e that we became  aware of all significant matters that would be disclosed in an examination.  we believe that the review evidence  obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide  a reasonable basis for our conclusion.   we are required to be independent of h ershey and to meet our other ethical responsibilities, in accordance with  the relevant ethical requirements related to our review engagement.  additionally, we have complied with the  other ethical requirements set forth in the code of professional conduct  and applied the statements on quality  control standards established by the aicpa.   the procedures we performed were based on our pr ofessional judgment . our review consisted principally of  applying analytical procedures, making inquiries of persons responsible for the subject matter, obtaining an  understanding of the data management systems and processes used to generate, aggregate and  report the subject  matter and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.   as described in appendix a , the subject matter is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from  limitations inherent in the nature and th e methods used for determining such data. the selection of different but  acceptable measurement techniques can result in materially different measurements. the precision of different  measurement techniques may also vary.   the information included in hershey ’s esg report, other than the subject matter, has not been subjected to the  procedures applied in our review and, accordingly, we express no conclusion on it .  based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the schedule  of  select sustainability indicators  for the year ended december  ,   in order for it to be in accordance with the  criteria.       april  ,           appendix a – the hershey  company schedules of selected sustainability indicators     schedule of   select environmental metrics   for the year ended december  ,      indicator name  reported  value  units of  measure  criteria  reporting boundary   energy consumption within the organization  hershey selected an  organizational boundary  based on the company’s  operational control.   total direct energy  consumption   , ,    gigajoules  (gj) hershey  calculates total energy  consumption as the total energy from all  sources including energy purchased from  sources external to the entity and energy  produced by the entity itself (self - generated). this includes direct fuel usage,  purchased electricity, purc hased heating,  purchased cooling and purchased steam.   percent of total  electricity  consumption that is  supplied as grid  electricity   . %  percentage  (%) hershey calculates the percent of total  electricity consumption that is supplied as  grid electricity as the total purchased grid  electricity consumption divided by total  electricity consumption.   percent of total  electricity  consumption that is  identified  as renewable  electricity   . %  percentage  (%) hershey  calculates the total electricity  consumption that is identified as    renewable electricity as   the total renewable electricity purchased  divided by total electricity consumption.   percent of total  electricity  consumption that is  covered by the  purchase of a zero - emissions energy  based contractual  instrument   . %  percentage  (%) the company calculates the total electricity  consumption that is covered by the purchase  of a zero -emissions energy based  contractual instrument as the total energy  purchased through zero -emissions energy  based contractual instruments divided by  total electricity consumption.          for facilities that do not receive invoices or meter readings necessary to obtain actual energy consumption, hershey utilizes  an  estimation methodology that considers historical and known data. this methodology is utilized for smaller offices and is not  considered material to hershey’s reported energy and electricity consumption.     the reporting boundary of the subject matter within the schedule includes all global facilities and offices under the operati onal control  of hershey . the reporting boundary incl udes all dot ’s pretzels  and pretzel s, inc.  facilities acquired during  .     total direct energy consumption includes natural gas, coal, gasoline, jet fuel, oil # , coal, propane, and biogenic sources and aligns  with the sources and energy consumption inc luded in the calculation of scope   ghg emissions.     grid electricity is defined as electricity provided and consumed by the company through connection with a third -party utility provider.  this excludes third -party auxiliary power providers, such as direct  line transmission from renewable sources of energy.     renewable electricity consists of both contractual instruments and electricity from renewable sources of energy provided thro ugh direct  line transmission. the contractual instruments align with the wr i/wbcsd ghg protocol scope   guidance quality criteria and are  derived from renewable energy. renewable energy is defined by the company as sources that are replenished at a rate greater t han or  equal to their rate of depletion (i.e., geothermal, wind, sol ar, and hydro). in certain instances, the retirement of these contractual  instruments may occur subsequent to the date of this report. when this is the case, the contractual instrument has a set date  for  retirement  or is contractually obligated to be retir ed. direct line renewable electricity is purchased by the company directly as  renewable electricity maintaining the related emissions attributes. the renewable energy based contractual instruments and th e direct  line renewable electricity used in this indicator are included in the scope   mbm ghg emissions calculation.     zero-emissions energy based contractual instruments are defined as contractual instruments that align with the wri/wbcsd ghg  protocol scope   guidance quality criteria but fail to meet the definition of renewable energy. most commonly this energy is  contractual instruments linked to nuclear energy. the zero -emissions energy based contractual instruments used in this indicator are  included in the scope   mbm ghg emissions calculation.     the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report       schedule of   select environmental metrics   for the year ended december  ,      indicator name  reported value  units of measure  criteria  reporting  boundary   scope   (direct)  greenhouse gas (ghg)  emissions , ,    ,    metric tonnes carbon  dioxide equivalents   (mt co  e) world resources institute (“wri”)  / world business council for  sustainable development’s  (“wbcsd”) the greenhouse gas  protocol: a corporate accounting  and reporting standard (ghg  protocol) and wri wbcsd g hg  protocol scope   guidance: an  amendment to the ghg protocol  corporate standard  hershey selected an  organizational  boundary based on  the company’s  operational control .    scope   (indirect) ghg  emissions, market - based method , ,   ,   mt co  e the ghg protocol and wri  wbcsd ghg protocol scope    guidance: an amendment to the  ghg protocol corporate standard  scope   (indirect) ghg  emissions, location - based method ,   ,   mt co  e                   for facilities that do not receive invoices or meter readings necessary to obtain actual energy consumption, hershey utilizes an  estimation methodology that considers historical and known data. this methodology is utilized for smaller offices and is not  considered material to hershey’s reported ghg emissions.     scope   ghg emissions includes natural gas, refrigerants, coal,  gasoline, jet fuel,  oil # ,  coal,  propane, and  biogenic emissions for ch    and n  o.    gases included in the reporting boundary are co  , ch   and n  o. additional greenhouse gases include hfcs and pfcs used in  refrigerants. the majority of the reported co  e emissions are from co   with the remainder being composed of ch   and n  o, hfcs,  pfcs, sf   and nf  .     hershey calculates their scope   ghg  emissions inclusive of company -owned passenger vehicles. in certain regions,  the exact fuel  consumed as part of hershey’s operational boundary holds a degree of uncertainty. as a result, hershey leverages estimation b ased  upon known historical data in ord er to maintain a representative footprint of their scope   ghg emissions.     the reporting boundary of the subject matter includes all global facilities and offices under the operational  control of hershey. the  reporting boundary  include s all dot ’s pretzels  and pretzel s, inc.  facilities acquired during   .    hershey  applies the ghg protocol scope   guidance for  both the market -based  and the location -based  emissions by multiplying  purchased electricity by the emissions factors indicated in the tabl e in the notes section titled “ sources of emissions factors and global  warming potentials .”    ghg emissions – scope   indirect emissions includes the following gases: co , ch  and n o in the reporting boundary. the vast  majority of the reported co e emissions are from co  with the remainder being composed of ch  and n o, noting that hfcs,  pfcs, sf  and nf  are not material to the company's emissions.     for some hershey owned facilities, renewable energy attributes and zero -emissions attributes are purchased as contractual instruments.  these attributes are registered and retired in an energy  market’s attribute tracking system. in certain instances, the retirement of these  contractual instruments may occur subsequent to the date of this report. when this is the case, the contractual instrument ha s a set date  for retirement  or is contractually obligated to be retire d. the company adjusts its scope   mbm emissions as recommended by the  ghg protocol scope   guidance by treating the underlying power associated with the attributes as null power in the calculatio n of  scope   mbm emissions.        note on non -financial reporting:     non-financial information is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and  the methods used for determining such data. the selection of different but acceptable measurement tec hniques can result  in materially different measurements. the precision of different measurements techniques may also vary.        the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report       note on sources of emissions factors and global warming potentials:     indicator name  emissions factors  global warming  potentials   ghg emissions –  scope      uk d epartment for environment, food and rural affairs (d efra )  greenhouse gas reporting: conversion factors as of september  ,      ipcc fourth  assessment report   ghg emissions –  scope   (market - based)    international energy agency (iea) data services     edison electric institute (eei) electric company carbon emissions  and electricity mix reporting database for corporate customers     green -e energy residual mix emissions rates     data year re -diss  residual mix emissions rates for europe   mexico emission factor of the national electrical system     hydro -quebec c    emissions     malaysia sustainable energy development authority       central electricity authority of india: tool to calculate the emission  factor for an electricity system – version  .    other supplier specific emissions factors   ghg emissions –  scope   (location - based)    the emissions & generation resource integrated database (egrid)     factors, international ener gy agency (iea) data services              the emis sion factors applied to electricity consumption in the u.s. is the green -e residual mix emission factor, which is an adjusted  grid-average emission factor that accounts for all unique green -e energy certified sales. a complete adjusted emission factor (i.e .,  residual mix that accounts for all voluntary renewable energy claimed) is not available for the u.s. at this time.        note on sources of conversion factors:     indicator name  conversion factors   total energy  consumption  u.s. energy information administration (eia)  unit energy conversion calculator   u.s. environmental protection agency (epa)  natural gas conversions   british oil and gas company (bp)  – statistical review of world energy – approximate conversion factors            the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report     quantis usa  /   long wharf,   -west,  boston, ma   / t +         / www.quantis.com     ggrreeeennhhoouussee  ggaass,,  wwaatteerr,,  aanndd  wwaassttee  vveerriiffiiccaattiioonn  ssttaatteemmeenntt     prepared for : the hershey company  prepared by : quantis us    april  ,        ggrreeeennhhoouussee  ggaass  eemmiissssiioonnss   the inventory of greenhouse gas emissions from selected scope   categories for the hershey company  has been verified for the reporting year   by quantis according to iso  -  as detailed below :    year  scope category  ghg emissions   (mt co e)     scope   category   – purchased goods and services   , ,    category   – fuel and energy related activities   ,   category   – upstream transportation  ,   category   – waste generated in operations   ,   category   – business travel   ,   category   – employee commuting   ,   category   – downstream transportation and distribution   ,   category   – end of life of sold products   ,       total scope   footprint   , ,         wwaatteerr  kkppiiss   the inventory of water withdrawal, water discharge, and water consumption has been verified for the  reporting year     by quantis, as detailed below:    year  kpi quantity  unit      total water withdrawal   ,  million liters   total water discharge  ,  million liters   total water consumption    million liters                      quantis usa  /   long wharf,   -west,  boston, ma   / t +         / www.quantis.com     wwaassttee  kkppiiss   the inventory of waste categories disposed and enterprise -wide waste intensity in operations has been  verified for the reporting year of     by quantis, as detailed below:    year  kpi quantity  unit     non- hazardous waste generated   ,  metric tons   waste recycled   ,  metric tons   recycled  ,  metric tons   stock feed  ,  metric tons   composted    metric tons   waste to energy (incineration)  ,  metric tons   waste to trash (landfill)   ,  metric tons   hazardous waste    metric tons   waste intensity   .  mt waste  generated /  mt product  produced                                                   quantis usa  /   long wharf,   -west,  boston, ma    / t +         / www.quantis.com    authorized by                   mariya absar, phd  senior sustainability consultant , quantis us  verification statement date: april  ,      qquuaannttiiss  uussaa       long wharf,  -west, boston, ma     tel: +   - -   email: info.usa@quantis-intl.com       the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report     quantis usa  /   long wharf,   -west,  boston, ma   / t +         / www.quantis.com     bbrriieeff  ddeessccrriippttiioonn  ooff  tthhee  vveerriiffiiccaattiioonn  pprroocceessss   quantis has been commissioned by the hershey company for verification of the hershey company  greenhouse gas emissions, from selected scope   categories  for the   reporting year, against the  ghg protocol . quantis also reviewed relevant water, and waste kpis for the   reporting year. the  verification was based on the verification scope, objectives , and criteria as agreed between the hershey  company and quantis.  rroolleess  aanndd  rreessppoonnssiibbiilliittiieess   the management of the hershey company is responsible for supplying relevant activity data and  emission factors, as well as the calculations of ghg emissions information and the reported ghg  emissions.  it is quantis’ responsibility to express an independent verification opinion on the ghg emissions as  provided by the hershey company for the period  st january   to  st december  .   oobbjjeeccttiivveess  aanndd  ccrriitteerriiaa   the purposes of this verification exercise are, by review of objective ev idence, to independently review :  • whether the ghg emissions are as declared by the hershey company.  • whether water and waste kpis are as declared by the hershey company.   • whether the data reported are accurate, complete, consistent, transparent, relevant and free of  material error or omission and compiled in accordance with the hershey company’ described  methodology.  lleevveell  ooff  aassssuurraannccee   quantis undertook the verification assessment with the aim to provide a limited level of assurance for  selected scope   categories listed below , as well as water and waste inventory kpis for the hershey  company operations.          quantis usa  /   long wharf,   -west,  boston, ma   / t +         / www.quantis.com     ssccooppee   emission sources verified were from co  -e arising from  the hershey company’s scope    emissions from  reporting year  . the following scope   categories were included:     category  in/out of scope   purchased goods & services  in scope   fuel & energy related activities  in scope   upstream transportation & distribution  in scope   waste generated in operations  in scope   business travel  in scope   employee commuting in scope   downstream transportation & distribution in scope   end of life treatment of products  in scope   capital goods  out of scope   upstream leased assets  out of scope   processing of sold products  out of scope   use of sold products  out of scope   downstream leased assets  out of scope   franchises out of scope   investments out of scope   note: scope   categories that are “out of scope” are excluded from hershey’s ghg inventory because they’re not materially app licable to the footprint      ccoonncclluussiioonn     based on the data and information provided to quantis and the processes and procedures conducted  by quantis, it is concluded that the ghg emissions calculations are sound. there is no evidence to  suggest that the ghg emissions for the reported scope   categories, as well as selected water and waste  kpis are not materially correct and are not a fair representation of provided data and information based  on the calculation methodologies utilized.        the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report material issue definitions issue definition advocacy and lobbying the	extent	to	 which	the	company 	is	involved	in	supporting,	 whether	financial	or 	otherwise,	any 	political	candidate	or 	issue	in	jurisdictions	that	it	operates.	 sub-issues: political expenditures, lobbying, brand activism animal welfare ensuring the production of livestock in the supply chain upholds standards for the ethical and humane treatment of animals, including their mental and physical well-being, and prioritizing  suppliers producing cruelty-free products. sub-issues:	cage-free	housing,	judicious	use	of	antibiotics/growth	hormone,	feeding	practices,	unnecessary 	suffering biodiversity engaging in the protection of ecosystems, including the protection of wildlife (e.g., plants, animals, and other species) and their habitats.  sub-issues: ecosystem protection, sustainable agriculture, wildlife protection and conservation, chemical management board and executive oversight oversight	to	ensure	highest	standards	for 	accountability 	and	trust	are	upheld	in	the	business,	supporting	an	environment	 with	integrity,	financial	stability,	and	responsible	and	long-term	 growth. sub-issues: board diversity, independent board members, executive compensation business operations and supply chain resilience the active management of supply chain activities to minimize disruptions of any form and maximize company and customer value. sub-issues: natural disaster preparedness, climate change, pandemic, risk assessment, geo-politics, tax child labor prohibiting work that deprives children of their childhood, their potential and their dignity, and is harmful to physical and mental development. sub-issues: education access, poverty, nutritional access data protection and cyber security protecting and securing employee and customer data to avoid reputational and personal damage. including appropriate measures to reduce data risks and increase the trust of all  stakeholders. ensuring the correct platforms are in place to ensure cyber security.  sub-issues: privacy, responsible use of technology, ethical use of data, data privacy deforestation use	and	management	of	forest resources	to	meet	business	and	customer 	needs,	as	 well	as	measures	of	any 	relevant	contamination,	deterioration	or 	destruction.  sub-issues: sustainable forestry and harvesting, land titles, law enforcement, agroforestry diversity, equity and inclusion (dei) embracing all forms of diversity in the workplace, creating an inclusive and equitable workplace culture where everyone feels safe, respected and valued. convey a commitment to inclusion,  diversity and equality beyond the workplace to hershey’s vendors, customers and communities with a focus on underrepresented groups. sub-issues: racial and social justice, discrimination, psychological safety, supplier diversity, equal access and opportunity for underrepresented groups, women’s empowerment along the  supply chain employee attraction, retention and development hiring, managing, developing and retaining the right people with the right skills in an increasingly competitive market. ensuring hershey's pay structure is competitive and aligns with industry  standards. sub-issues:	learning	and	development,	talent	acquisition,	compensation	and	benefits,	pension	management energy management optimizing operational practices and power sources to conserve energy and reduce overall energy consumption. sub-issues:	renewable	energy,	energy 	efficiency,	led	lighting ethics and compliance maintaining the highest levels of ethical standards in the conduct of our operations and acting in full compliance with the laws and regulations of the countries in which hershey operates and  serves, maintaining compliance with best practices and international standards, where applicable. sub-issues: anti-competitive behavior, anti-corruption, compliance with relevant standards, ethical behavior, regulatory compliance farmer livelihoods the opportunity for growers to influence decision-making processes and to undertake transformative actions that can help them to improve their livelihoods. sub-issues: employment opportunity, fair wages, living wageenvironment governance social   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report issue definition food safety and quality upholding the highest product quality and assessing and ensuring the health and safety of all products. practices used to grow, harvest, process and deliver safe, healthy and quality food and  prevent any contamination or food-borne illnesses. sub-issues:	product	safety,	quality 	inspection	and	certification ghg emissions and climate change taking action to reduce hershey’s carbon footprint and reduce climate-related risks. sub-issues: emissions reduction, low-carbon logistics, business travel, facility footprint, decarbonization, resilient supply chains human rights (supply chain) throughout the supply chain, upholding and respecting the fundamental human rights of all external stakeholders by ensuring basic conditions for all individuals to live with dignity and free  from human rights abuses, including child and forced labor. sub-issues:	fundamental	human	rights,	forced	labor,	human	trafficking,	living	 wage	and	income labor relations upholding commonly accepted core labor rights principles across the hershey workforce and supporting freedom to association and collective bargaining as well as respecting the right to be  free of harassment and intimidation in the workplace.  sub-issues: labor rights, collective bargaining, grievance mechanisms, freedom of association nutrition and health the	company's	involvement	in	making	healthy 	products	 widely	available	and	affordable. sub-issues: consumer well-being, children’s nutrition, transparency packaging and end-of-life minimizing the use of packaging and single-use plastics, including reducing unnecessary packaging, and implementing reuse and recycled materials for customer and consumer-facing  packaging. additionally, ensuring packaging is easily recyclable for customers and consumers.  sub-issues: plastic reduction, circular systems, recycled and reusable sources, customer waste and post-consumer recycling responsible marketing and labelling promoting practices which maintain fair marketing and responsible selling, as well as providing customers with transparent access to information about the origin and composition of products,  including environmental (i.e., environmental footprint) and social (i.e., human rights and fair wages) impacts, to help customers make informed choices.  sub-issues: fair and responsible selling, customer labelling, responsible marketing, ingredients and product transparency responsible sourcing the company's ability to maintain a secure, sustainable, and fair supply chain for its assets and services. sub-issues: ethical sourcing, sustainable sourcing, safety, transparency soil health efforts	to	protect	and	ensure	the	capacity 	of	soil	to	function	as	a	 vital	living	ecosystem	that	sustains	plants,	animals,	and	humans.	 sub-issues:	regenerative	agriculture,	chemical	management	and	pesticide/fertilizer 	use,	desertification supporting communities supporting, developing, and enhancing the well-being and livelihoods of communities where hershey is present through charitable giving and employee volunteering.  sub-issues: philanthropy, employee volunteering, community relations, disaster response, hunger and food scarcity traceability the ability of the company to follow the movement of a food product and its ingredients through all steps in the supply chain. sub-issues: blockchain, supply chain transparency, risk management waste management responsible management and disposal of hazardous/non-hazardous waste in production and operations and where possible, reducing, recycling or reusing within the supply chain.  sub-issues: hazardous/non-hazardous waste disposal, facility and corporate recycling programs, customer and supplier engagement, food waste water use responsibly using, managing and conserving water resources while meeting business needs. sub-issues:	 water	efficiency,	 wastewater 	management,	 water	quality	and	effluent workplace health and safety ensuring	the	physical	and	mental	health	and	safety 	of	hershey’s	employees	at	offices,	stores	and	distribution	centers	by 	providing	a	safe	place	to	 work	with	sufficient	protocols	and	training	 programs in place.  sub-issues: workplace protection, mental well-being, flexible working, company culture, health and safety policies and training, employee incidents at workmaterial issue definitions   continuedenvironment governance social   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report salient human rights issues definitions   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report these	are	the	definitions	used	in	the	 	refresh	of	our 	salient	human	rights	issues. issue definition child labor as defined by the international labour organization (ilo), child labor is work that deprives children of their childhood, their potential, and their dignity, and is harmful to their physical and mental  development. forced labor as defined by the ilo, this includes work or service that is obtained from any person under the threat of penalty and for which the person has not offered himself or herself voluntarily. land rights and acquisition customary land rights, including the fulfillment of respecting rights for indigenous peoples, local communities and farmers to give free, prior and informed consent, for acquisition and development. living wage and income workers and farmers to receive a wage and/or income level that allows all members of the household to afford a decent standard of living.  health and safety a safe and healthy workplace in both our own business and in our supply chains in line with applicable safety and health laws and in consultation with rightsholders. access to water and sanitation sufficient, safe, acceptable, physically accessible and affordable water for personal and domestic use and to sanitation services that are safe and physically accessible, and ensure privacy and dignity. climate impacts and deforestation the impacts of climate change and commodity-driven deforestation on people and communities. gender and social inequality equal human rights for historically marginalized groups including women and the bipoc community, and those further marginalized based on intersecting identities.  	elements	of	a	decent	standard	of	living	include food,	 water,	housing,	education,	health	care,	transportation,	clothing,	and	other 	essential	needs	including	provision	for 	unexpected	events.