 global responsibility report   ©  general mills.table of contents    appendix    environmental data summary    global reporting initiative index    united nations global compact principles     task force on climate-related  financial disclosures index     sustainability accounting standards  board reference table    food    food safety    nutrition     alleviating hunger     diverse consumer needs    consumer education and marketing    transparency    introduction    to our stakeholders    company overview    fiscal   highlights    fiscal   report dashboard    environmental, social and governance issues    oversight    stakeholder engagement    philanthropy and community engagement     public policy    about this report   planet    climate change    eliminating deforestation    regenerative agriculture    water stewardship    packaging    sustainable operations    responsible sourcing    animal welfare     people    human rights    workplace safety     diversity, inclusion and belonging     employee well-being   and development     strengthening hometown  communities  to our stakeholders jeffrey l. harmening chairman, chief  executive officer general millsintroduction since our founding more than    years ago, general mills has been  guided by the belief that doing good  and good business go hand-in-hand.  today, we’re more committed than  ever to ensure the g in general mills  stands for good — for the people we  serve and the planet we depend on.  standing for people in  , we refreshed our company  values to drive clarity and unity of  purpose for all our employees going  forward. our updated values — win  together, continuously innovate,  champion belonging, and do the right  thing, all the time — reinforce who  we are, how we treat each other, and  what we aspire to be as a company. this past year we have made progress  against our ongoing commitment  to diversity in leadership and talent  acquisition, including an increase in  the percentage of people of color in  leadership roles across general mills,  and an increase in the percentage of  women on our board of directors.  our focus on standing for people  extends across our business — from  the farmers who grow our ingredients  to all workers in our supply chains.  we are accelerating action to respect  human rights to positively impact all  the people we depend upon — and who  depend on us. in  , we updated our  supplier code of conduct to include  expanded protections for human rights. standing for planet our business also is inherently dependent  on the earth. we know that a healthy  planet is critical for our company to  continue making food the world loves,  yet the negative impacts of climate  change are widespread and severe. we  recognize that we must regenerate the  world’s resources, strengthen ecosystems,  and build community resilience. we have focused our efforts in three  priority areas where we can have the  greatest impact — climate change,  regenerative agriculture and packaging.  in  , we laid the groundwork for  our climate roadmap and invested  in resources and capabilities to drive  progress toward our ambitious goals. we  continue to lead the industry in advancing  regenerative agriculture by partnering  with farmers, advancing science, and  measuring outcomes. we also invested  in a groundbreaking partnership to  establish a state-of-the-art flexible  film recycling plant in minnesota.  to improve the integration of  environmental, social and governance  (esg) priorities into our business, general  mills formed a global impact governance  committee, which is accountable  for ensuring our global responsibility  programs are resourced, on track, and,  ultimately, achieved. i lead the committee,  and i’m joined by a highly engaged  group of cross-functional senior leaders.  we convene the committee regularly and have strong engagement and  oversight by our board of directors. in our  rd year of reporting social  and environmental performance to  stakeholders, we remain committed  to disclosing our progress, as well  as our challenges. we continue to  support key global efforts to advance  the sustainability agenda, including  the united nations global compact,  which we have endorsed since  . our scale brings both opportunity  and responsibility, and we are more  determined than ever to ensure the g  in general mills stands for good. while  plenty of work remains to be done, i am  incredibly proud of the progress we have  made and am energized by the strategies  we have in place to continue advancing  our commitments for people and planet.  sincerely, jeff general mills global responsibility     our business is dependent on mother nature. we are working from the ground   up to solve today’s food and agricultural challenges to build a resilient future. regenerative agriculture    general mills is working   to advance an ecosystem   of good on farms and  ranches — and measure   its impact.climate action   general mills is looking  beyond its walls — from  farm to fork and beyond —  to reduce greenhouse gas  emissions and create positive  planetary outcomes. recyclable or   reusable packaging    general mills is  innovating in packaging  design to reduce  environmental impact.  we thrive when our employees and the communities where   we live and work are healthy and vibrant. hunger relief    general mills is focused   on improving food security  in communities of color. box tops for education     general mills advocates   for greater equity   in education.equity, inclusion   and representation     general mills is committed  to advancing our culture  of belonging and creating  positive impact in hometowns  where we live and work. our purpose standing for goodour values our strategic pillarscompany overview boldly   building brandschampion   belongingcontinuously  innovatewin  togetherrelentlessly innovatingunleashing  our scalestanding   for good general mills global responsibility     one important way general mills is  investing for the future is through our  commitment to standing for good.  as a member of our global impact  governance committee (gigc), myself  and other general mills leaders help  ensure our people and planet efforts  are integrated across our enterprise,  from our day-to-day investment  decisions to our long-range planning. across our finance function, we  are diligently working to ensure  our financial planning and capital  management practices incorporate  our environmental, social and governance (esg) commitments.  i’m especially proud of our efforts  to align a portion of our company’s  financing with our commitment  to address climate change. n   in april  , we became the  first u.s. consumer packaged  goods company to put in place a  sustainability-linked credit facility.  by entering into this agreement, we  receive a pricing adjustment based  on measured progress in two key  areas: reducing greenhouse gas  emissions and using renewable  electricity for our global operations. n   in october  , we announced our  inaugural sustainability-linked bond,  making us the first u.s. investment  grade consumer packaged  goods company to execute this  type of green financing bond. these innovative financing structures  demonstrate our commitment to  taking urgent action against climate  change by embedding sustainability  into the fabric of our operations. as we continue to look beyond our  annual planning cycle, we need to  understand the risk of climate change  to our future business results. as a signee and supporter of the task force  for climate-related financial disclosure  (tcfd), we remain committed to  providing our stakeholders with relevant  information on climate-related issues.  a summary of our approach can be  found within the planet section of our  global responsibility report, as well  as through our annual cdp disclosure.  from driving topline growth to  creating cost savings and a more  resilient supply chain, we believe that  integrating our esg efforts across  the enterprise is not only imperative  for people and the planet, but also  drives value for our stakeholders.thoughts from our chief financial officer kofi bruce chief financial officer general mills  % of our company-owned production   facilities are global food safety initiative  (gfsi) certified.   million meals were enabled by donations of  general mills food worldwide during  . #  general mills is the largest provider   of natural and organic packaged food   in the u.s.* ,  acres enrolled in programs advancing  regenerative management.  % renewable electricity sourced for our   global operations.  % of general mills packaging recyclable   or reusable (by weight).**food  % of our board of directors are women  and  % are ethnically diverse.  % of our employees say that general  mills is a great place to work.*** $  million in charitable giving contributed by  general mills and our foundation  worldwide in fiscal  .people planet *includes food for both humans and pets. source: spins   weeks ending  / /  total – us mulo, natural enhanced channel and pet channel. ** represents north america retail and north america foodservice operating segments. ***global survey of salaried employees, october  .fiscal   highlights general mills global responsibility     fiscal   report dashboard section commitment/goal or key performance indicator   progress foodachieve global food safety initiative (gfsi) certification of all company-owned facilities  % global volume meeting criteria as nutrition-forward foods (% of global volume)  % ranking of largest natural and organic packaged food providers in the u.s.  #  meals enabled by donations of general mills surplus food worldwide (# of meals)   million enable   billion meals by   through food donations and philanthropic partnerships (cumulative # of meals since  )  .  billion planetreduce value chain greenhouse gas emissions by  % by   vs.   baseline (% reduction)  % advance regenerative agriculture on   million acres of farmland by   (# of acres engaged through programs designed to advance  regenerative management) ,  all general mills packaging designed to be recyclable or reusable by   (% of packaging in north america retail   and foodservice segments) % champion the regeneration of water resources in priority watersheds ongoing source  % renewable electricity for our global operations by   (% achieved)  % reduce food waste in operations by  % by   vs.   baseline (% reduction)  % achieve zero waste to landfill at all owned production facilities by   (% achieved)  % purchase  % cage-free or free-range eggs for our global operations by   (% contracted)  % peopleadvance respect for human rights across our value chain ongoing global injury/illness rate per million hours worked (based on astm e  international standard)  .  women in professional positions (% of global employees)  % increase minority representation to  % (% of u.s. employees)  % representation of black managers (% of u.s. employees)  % spend with minority-owned suppliers (us$) $  million percent of employees that say general mills is great place to work  % amount of charitable giving (us$) $  millionthroughout the year general mills has continued our work to stand for good across our value chain, from agriculture and operations to our consumers and communities. below  is a summary of our progress in fiscal  . this table does not cover all metrics contained in the report; it includes key commitments and goals as well as select performance  indicators in areas of importance to general mills and our stakeholders. please refer to each section of the report for details and definitions on these and other metrics. general mills global responsibility     environmental, social and governance issues in  , we partnered with pivot  strategies to conduct an update of our  esg issues assessment. we created  and distributed a survey to more than    external and internal stakeholders,  who were asked to assess the relative  impact of each issue based on two  dimensions: external impact (the impact  that general mills has on society and the environment from each issue) and  internal impact (the impact of each  issue on the company’s performance  and enterprise value, considering  factors such as revenue, expenses,  reputation, risk, capital investment,  market access and financial reporting  impacts). the results of the survey  were aggregated, and the issues were placed into tiers based on their relative  impact on the two dimensions. this esg issues assessment and  prioritization helps guide our strategy  and reporting and has enhanced our  understanding of what stakeholders  feel are currently the most impactful  issues for our company to address. we recognize that all of the issues assessed  are important and interconnected, and  do not view this assessment in isolation,  but rather in conjunction with our  broader business strategy and priorities.  for more information on this assessment,  including definitions and boundaries  for each of these issues, please refer to  our   global responsibility report. n    climate change n    food safety and quality n    health and nutrition n    ingredient sourcing n    packaging n    regenerative agriculturen    biodiversity n    board and executive oversight n    diversity, equity and inclusion  n    ethics and compliance n    hunger and food security n    regulatory compliance n    responsible marketing and labelingn    responsible sourcing n    talent management n    transparency n    waste n    water stewardship n    workplace safetyn    animal welfare n    community giving and engagement n    deforestation n    human rights n    privacy and data security n    public policytier  : priority issues core to   general mills’ strategy and performancetier  : issues of importance  with focused strategiestier  : significant issues to our business oversight the global impact governance  committee, led by our chairman and  ceo and overseen by the board’s  public responsibility committee, is  accountable for our global responsibility  programs. the board’s public  responsibility committee provides  extensive oversight and receives regular  updates from the operating teams. our chairman and ceo convenes  the global impact governance  committee at least three times per  year. the purpose of the committee  is to establish, direct and oversee general mills’ position on matters of  significance to the company and its  stakeholders concerning corporate  social responsibility, environmental and  sustainability issues, and philanthropy.  additional details about leadership  and governance related to specific  global responsibility issues are included  in relevant sections of this report.  see corporate governance to learn  more about the company’s broader  corporate governance structures  and processes, including its public  responsibility committee. r this graphic outlines governance and management of global responsibility focus  areas at general mills.board of directors’ public responsibility  committee chief strategy and  growth officerglobal impact   governance committee ceo, chairman of the board chief financial officer chief supply chain officer chief innovation, technology  and quality officer chief strategy and growth officer chief human resources officer group president, north  american retail group president, pet chief communications officer general counsel and secretarychief innovation,  technology and  quality officerchief human  resources officer global responsibility  focus areasglobal impact  (sustainability and  philanthropy)health and   nutritionworkplaceceo, chairman  of the board general mills global responsibility     stakeholder engagement at general mills, we engage with  stakeholders to accelerate progress  on social and environmental initiatives.  our approach includes open dialogue,  collaboration and transparent  disclosure. this strengthens our ability  to balance business and societal  interests; build robust relationships  globally across sectors; and ultimately,  identify innovative solutions that  create shared, sustainable value.  we are working to address shared  issues — such as health and nutrition,  racial equity, climate change and  water stewardship — so collaboration  is essential to achieving long-term,  enduring progress. we work with  other companies and organizations to  shape standards across the consumer  packaged goods industry, which  elevates overall sector performance.  we engage on issues that are material  to our global responsibility strategy  and where we can have a substantial positive impact. when engaging with  stakeholders, we assess potential  alignment on objectives, organizational  expertise, capacity, influence and  willingness to collaborate. for example, to advance regenerative  agriculture, we are engaging  stakeholders across the value chain  including the u.s. and state departments  of agriculture, trade associations,  peer companies, retailers, nonprofit  implementing partners and academic  institutions. we engaged senior officials  at the usda on how the government  can support farmers who want to  pursue regenerative practices. we are  extending those conversations to the  states by partnering with the national  association of state departments of  agriculture. we are also working with  walmart and peer companies to advance  regenerative agriculture through policy  levers ahead of the federal farm bill.  general mills supports the united nations (un) sustainable development goals (sdgs), and we focus on the goals that align with the company’s priority issues and areas   of long-standing commitment, investment and progress. n   food security n   food waste n   health and  nutritionn   food safety n   health and  nutrition n   talent managementn   water  stewardship n   climate change n   energy use n   ingredient  sourcing n    packaging  footprintn   climate change  n   food waste n    packaging n   water stewardshipn   biodiversity n   deforestation n   ingredient sourcingn   ethics and  compliance n   human rights n   public policyn   biodiversity n   water  stewardshipn   diversity, equity  and inclusion n   food security n   human rights n   responsible  sourcingn   human rights n   responsible  sourcing n   talent managementn   climate change n   energy usen   diversity, equity  and inclusion n   human rights n   responsible  sourcingn   community  engagement n   diversity, equity  and inclusion n   talent managementn   food security n   human rights n   regenerative  agricultureunited nations sustainable development goalswe engage with  stakeholders on a   variety of issues.employees n  covid-  response n  diversity and  inclusion n  employee satisfaction n  training and  development ngos n  packaging n  biodiversity n  human rights n  soil health n  sustainable sourcing n  water stewardshipconsumers n  consumer   feedback/concerns n  education and  responsible marketing n  product needs  and preferences industry  associations n  food safety n  public policy n  regenerative  agriculture n  sustainable sourcingcustomers n  industry partnerships n  product innovation n  sustainability  collaboration suppliers n  animal welfare n  human rights n  regenerative  agriculture n   sustainable   sourcing investors n  financial  performance n  governance n  social and  environmental issues n  sustainability communities n  covid-  response n  employee volunteerism n  food security n  racial equityregulators and   public policymakers n  climate change n  food security n  packaging n  water stewardship general mills global responsibility     we are deeply committed to the  communities where we live and operate  and from which we source our ingredients.  our community impact initiatives,  including philanthropy and employee  volunteerism, aim to help build strong,  equitable and resilient communities. our approach: general mills philanthropy  ties closely to our company’s purpose,  core business and food systems  knowledge. we partner in innovative  ways with nonprofits and other partners  to grow our collective impact in  targeted issue areas, while engaging  our employees through volunteerism. leadership and governance: general  mills philanthropy and community  engagement programs are led by the  chief sustainability and global impact  officer with support from a team of  experienced specialists who steward  the company’s philanthropy. in addition,  employee councils located across our key  global operating communities — general  mills “hometowns” — help to inform our  local grantmaking by recommending  nonprofits to be considered for grants. general mills philanthropy is governed  by the global impact governance  committee, which includes the company’s  chairman and chief executive officer and  leaders from law, finance, r&d, supply  chain, marketing, strategy and growth,  communications, and innovation functions. targeted impact: to ensure general mills  philanthropy is well informed and effective,  we use an outcomes-based approach  to help strategically target and advance  solutions in priority issue areas. led by  managers on our global impact team and with input from other internal and external  subject matter experts, we leverage the  evidence base to develop logic models  for each of our priority issue areas that  clearly define: the end outcomes (social and environmental) we are targeting;  the key activities and interventions that  best support those outcomes; and the  key measures we will use to assess our  impact and progress along the way.philanthropy and community engagement philanthropic global focus areas alleviating hunger —  helping to feed people in  need, promoting surplus  food recovery and reducing  racial disparities in food  access. learn more.regenerating  ecosystems —  empowering growers  and regenerating  ecosystems and natural  resources. learn more.strengthening hometown  communities — making  meaningful impact to people  and families in the communities  where our employees live  and work. learn more. our product donations to food banks  enabled   million meals around the  world in fiscal  . our strategic philanthropy and our  community giving in general mills  hometown communities spanned six  continents in fiscal  .   million   continentswe gave us$  million to charitable  causes in fiscal  . $  million in   product donations$  million in   cash donations$  millionour philanthropic impact our people-centered approach to impact to advance positive global impact, we  engage to support system transformation  initiatives centered on the people and  communities closest to the issues. we  prioritize programs that recognize the  wisdom and multilayered understanding  that comes from lived experience, and  that prioritize investments to help build  the resources and capacity of individuals  from those communities to be the guides  and champions of new and better futures. in everything we do — from our farmer- focused regenerative agriculture work  around the globe in regions where  we source key ingredients (see pages   - ); to our work with the minnesota  business coalition for racial equity in  our world headquarters community  (see page   ); and our founding of  partners in food solutions, a multi- company initiative taking aim at food  security in africa by sharing knowledge and best practices with emerging food  companies (see page  ) — we believe  that a people-centered approach  unlocks the deepest understanding  of social and environmental issues  and systems, and is in fact key to  designing better, more regenerative  solutions for both people and planet.r our philanthropy work is strongly aligned with many of the united nations sustainable  development goals (sdgs), including goals  ,  ,  ,  ,   and  . general mills global responsibility     at general mills, we actively engage in  public policy issues that are important  to our company and stakeholders.  we are committed to conducting  these activities in an accountable and  transparent manner. we articulate  our approach in the public policy for  the greater good area of our website.  our public policy priorities include: n    protecting and preserving our planet: 	w  leading on regenerative agriculture  and soil health — general mills is  a leading voice on regenerative  agriculture. we invest to help  support farmers as they shift  toward more sustainable practices  and encourage collaboration and  investment by governments and  the private sector, such as our  support for the foundation for  food and ag research (ffar), a  critical facilitator of public private  partnerships between industry and farmers. policy is a critical  tool to advance this work. we also  encourage the u.s. congress to  strengthen collaboration between  organizations, components of  our supply chains and domestic  agriculture producers to meet our  ambitious sustainability goals.  	w  combating climate change — we  have established industry-leading,  science-based targets for carbon  reduction and advocate for climate  change policies. we support a  comprehensive, national climate  policy; joined ceres’ lead on  climate   day calling for action;  have publicly called for the u.s.  to remain in the paris climate  accord ; and support the u.s.  environmental protection agency’s  (epa) clean power plan. see a  list of our public actions here. 	w  supporting stronger organic  standards — we work to promote  and protect the integrity of  organic standards and advance  their continuous improvement.  learn about our support for the  national organic standards  board (nosb) and the organic  agriculture research and  extension initiative (orei). 	w  advancing water stewardship —   we engage policymakers to  drive more sustainable water  practices in key watersheds,  like california and kansas. 	w  addressing packaging and food  waste — we promote policies to  effectively and efficiently increase  packaging recycling rates and  reduce waste. in the u.s., we are a  leader in ameripen — the american  institute for packaging and the  environment — and are actively  engaged in multiple coalitions aimed  at reducing food waste and loss.  n    delivering nutrition: we work to  advance nutrition priorities, including  support for strong dietary guidelines  for americans and strong u.s. school  nutrition standards, and advocate  for nutrition standards aligned  with scientific recommendations  in the supplemental nutrition  program for women, infants and  children (wic), particularly that all  breakfast cereals be whole grain. n    ensuring safe food: we strongly  support the food safety  modernization act (fsma) and  its goal of raising food safety  standards across the food value  chain. we have consistently called  on congress to continue adequate  funding for fsma implementation. n    increasing food security and  strengthening communities:  increasing food security — at the  federal level, we are a longtime  supporter of the congressional  hunger center, and we work with  numerous partners to advance  policy at the state level.	w  protecting people — we advocate  for inclusive public policies  and add our voice to help lead  change, including for inclusive u.s.  immigration and lgbtq+ policies.  	w  strengthening our communities —  we develop important community  partnerships that drive economic  growth, increase connections and  improve equity. for example, we are  a leader in the minnesota business  coalition for racial equity (learn  more in the people section of  this report) and have advocated  for the minnesota legislature  to enact policing reforms. n   informing consumers and  increasing awareness: we support  public policy efforts to inform our  consumers about our products. for  example, we voluntarily labeled  our products for the presence of  bioengineered (be) ingredients in  the u.s. before it was required by  law, and we continue to do so. n   compliance: we comply with all  lobbying regulations where applicable  and file regular reports on our  lobbying activity. general mills is  registered as a lobbying entity at the  federal level for the u.s. house of  representatives and u.s. senate and in  the states of minnesota and california.public policy general mills global responsibility     the general mills global responsibility  report describes our commitments,  goals, programs and performance across  a broad range of issues. the company’s  global impact team has responsibility for  the development of the report. ultimate  accountability lies with the global impact  governance committee (see page  ). the global responsibility report is  an important part of a broader set of  disclosures, including the company’s  annual report, sec filings and annual  proxy statement, that provide  stakeholders a multifaceted description  of general mills performance.  report scope n   the report covers the company’s  global operations in fiscal    (  weeks ended may  ,  ),  except where noted otherwise.n   data for fiscal   scope  ,    and   ghg emissions have been  verified by apex companies, llc.  for details, see the greenhouse gas  emissions section in the appendix. n   unless otherwise noted, data  in this report is not externally  verified and may occasionally be  restated due to improvements in  data collection methodology. n   actual results may vary significantly  from expectations expressed or  implied in this report. undue reliance  should not be placed on forward- looking statements, which speak only  as of the date they are made. we do  not undertake to update or revise  any forward-looking statements,  except as required by law.reporting standards n   this report references the  gri standards. see the  gri index for details. n   this report references the sustainability  accounting standards board (sasb)  processed foods standard. see the   sasb index for details. n   general mills endorsed the principles of  the un global compact in  . this  report serves as the company’s annual  communication on progress. see the  un global compact index for details. stakeholder input for the last several years, general mills  has engaged ceres to convene a group  of external stakeholders, including  investors, ngo representatives and  corporate practitioners, to provide input on our annual global responsibility  report. this year, several corporate and  industry experts from ceres provided  feedback on a detailed report draft. we  value this input and have incorporated  much of their feedback into the report. feedback we welcome your comments about this  report. please send any feedback to   corporate.response@genmills.com.about this reportpolitical contributions  and memberships our civic policy describes our  approval process for corporate  political contributions. the public  responsibility committee of the board  of directors oversees the company’s  political activities, including our policy,  disclosure of corporate political  contributions, membership in major  trade associations and independent  political expenditures (although the  company has not made any). for details  and historical information, see our   -  civic involvement reports. the general mills political action com - mittee (g-pac) is run by employees and  uses employee funds to make political  contributions to federal and, in limited  cases, state candidates. no corporate  treasury funds are used for federal candi - date contributions, but as allowed by law,  the company pays g-pac administration  costs. all g-pac transactions are publicly  disclosed via reports available on the   federal election commission website.  general mills also advances its mission  by partnering with trade associations  and other independent organizations  that share our goals, including: n   international organizations, such  as euroglaces and the brazilian  association of food industries.  n   u.s. public-policy-focused  organizations, such as the consumer  brands association and the national  association of manufacturers.  n   state or provincial agencies, local  chambers of commerce and  manufacturing organizations,  such as the minnesota chamber  of commerce and the ohio  manufacturers association. we report details about our largest u.s.  trade association memberships biannually  in our civic involvement reports. we do  not belong to or make payments to any  tax-exempt organizations in the u.s. that  write and endorse model legislation.  accountability: in  , the center for  political accountability rated general  mills as one of the top “trendsetters”  in its cpa-zicklin index of corporate  political disclosure and accountability.  in this ranking, which includes all  companies in the standard & poor’s    index, we maintained our leading  performance from past years. general mills global responsibility     in this section n   food safety n   nutrition n   alleviating hunger n   diverse consumer needs n    consumer education   and marketing n   transparency food meals were enabled by  donations of general  mills food worldwide  during  .general mills is the  largest provider  of natural and  organic packaged  food in the u.s.*  million #  of our company- owned production  facilities are global  food safety initiative  (gfsi) certified.  % *includes food for both humans and pets. source: spins   weeks ending  / /  total – us mulo, natural enhanced channel and pet channel. general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people our approach: safety is a priority for  our company and central to our culture. leading with safety — both in the workplace and the food we make — is one of the key operating principles that guides our work. we share best practices with industry peers, suppliers and regulators to help raise standards industry-wide. systems: our global food safety  systems focus on prevention, intervention and response.  n processes – food safety isintegrated into all our processes,beginning with r&d and extendingacross our supply chain. n risk mitigation – we conductinternal risk-based surveillance andfood safety testing at all generalmills facilities to identify andprioritize specific areas of risk. n audits – our global internal auditteam periodically audits the effectiveness and efficiency of food safety controls and operating procedures. results are reported to the board of directors’ public responsibility committee. governance: n policies – governance of general millsfood safety and regulatory mattersbegins with a corporate food safetyand regulatory policy signed byour chief executive officer. thiscorporate-wide policy is supported by  individual policies that apply to ourhuman and pet food products globally.these policies and accompanyingstandards, procedures and guidelinescover a broad range of food safety areas, such as regulatory compliance; trace and recall;  labeling; claims; physical, chemical and biological hazards; transportation; good manufacturing practices; and sanitation. n leadership – the vice presidentof food safety and quality hasdirect responsibility for food safety.further oversight of food safetyresults and strategy is providedby the board of directors’ publicresponsibility committee. suppliers:  n audits – we conduct supplier andco-producer audits globally to helpensure the safety of the raw materialswe use in our products. in addition toperforming direct virtual and physicalonsite audits, we encourage third-party audits and/or certification as anadditional preventive control measure. n training – we bring together our sup- pliers to share food safety knowledge and c ommunicate expectations recalls: when we learn about illnesses  that may be linked to our products, we take immediate action. we collaborate with internal and external technical experts to investigate the situation, communicate with customers and consumers, and issue voluntary recalls to remove affected products from store shelves, when appropriate. we conducted   very small voluntary product recalls globally in fiscal  , compared to   recall in fiscal  .food safety gfsi certification:* *includes blue buffalo pet food facilities.  our plant in pouso alegre, brazil achieved partial certification in fiscal   and is expected to achieve full certification by theend of fiscal   (may  ). **includes general mills employees, suppliers,   partners and co-producers.***includes corporate quality and supply   chain professionals globally as of   september  .*includes human food co-production sites and  suppliers. gfsi compliance numbers may fluctuate from year to year as new sites are added and other sites are removed based on changes in volume andingredient requirements for new products, as well as delays in the issuing of certificates by certifying bodies, travel restrictions and other factors.invested into food safety, equal  to  . % of total supply chain  essential capital investment   (u.s. dollars) people trained through global  centers of excellence and online  training academy** quality professionals trained  in food safety***$  .  million  ,   ,  %    of company-owned production  facilities global food safety  initiative (gfsi) certified*supplier and partner audits  conducted, including   packaging  audits,   human food ingredient  audits,   pet food ingredient audits and   co-producer audits  suppliers participated in food safety training sessionsglobal   co-production   sitesglobal   ingredient  suppliersnorth american  ingredient  vendor sitesour performance our suppliers  progress  %  %   % general mills global responsibility    food       planet       people our approach our goal is to provide a diverse  portfolio of products that contribute to  the well-being of our consumers and  meet a variety of their needs. we are  committed to making food with passion  and putting people first by delivering  the taste they love and improving  the nutrient density, affordability and  accessibility of our products. at general  mills, we view nutrition as a source  of growth and as a force for good. our aspiration: we recognize the  importance of our foods in consumers’  lives, and we provide a variety of foods  that fit with our consumers’ budgets,  time, tastes and nutritional needs. we  understand the importance of sustainable  food systems and the critical role the food  industry can play in meeting these needs.  we aspire to provide nutrient-dense foods  that are made with ingredients grown  using regenerative agricultural practices,  that are affordable, easy to prepare and  that the whole family loves. learn more  about our leadership in sustainable  food systems, our sustainable sourcing  practices and our work to reduce the  environmental impacts of food packaging  in the planet section of this report. investment in nutrition research: we  invest in research and development  (r&d) to improve the nutrient density  of our products and help us improve our  understanding of the impact of food on  health and wellness. we believe in cross- sector dialogue and diverse partnerships to advance nutrition research in support  of public health. we collaborate with  a range of scientists, universities,  consortiums and organizations across  the globe to advance nutrition science  and help answer multifaceted nutrition  problems. we discuss our policies and  practices openly and transparently. bell institute of health and nutrition:  general mills’ global bell institute of health  and nutrition is the company’s source for  scientific health and nutrition expertise  that creates value and growth for general  mills. the bell institute of health and  nutrition is a team of scientists and  registered dietitians who guide general  mills’ product development through: n   nutrition science research n   insights on nutrition claims  and regulatory matters n   health communications to customers,  nutrition professionals and consumers n   nutrition recommendations for  product innovation and reformulation n   product nutrition guidelines for select  brands, including category-specific   limits for calories, saturated fat, sodium  and added sugar, and nutrients as  well as food groups to encourage, like  whole grain and fiber learn more on the bell institute website. leadership and governance:   responsibility for product development  and marketing lies within the r&d and marketing organizations, respectively.  responsibility for marketing  communications is held by the chief  strategy and growth officer. the  chief innovation, technology and  quality officer is responsible for the  areas of product nutrition, safety and  labeling. the bell institute of health and  nutrition reports to the chief innovation,  technology and quality officer who  approves the overall health and wellness  strategy and updates the public  responsibility committee of the board of  directors. see organization chart above. health and wellness advisory  council: since  , our health and  wellness advisory council of globally  recognized external academic experts  in health and nutrition meets regularly  to provide feedback on our nutrition  strategies and actions. learn more   about our nutrition and food safety  partnerships and collaborations.  nutrition policy and engagement:  globally, we engage transparently on  nutrition policy topics through public  engagement opportunities to provide  science-based positions that support public health concepts such as nutrient  density, fortification, whole grain and  healthy dietary patterns. for more  information about where and how  we engage on nutrition policy topics,  please see the public policy content  in the report’s introduction section.chief innovation,  technology and  quality officerhealth and wellness  advisory council product  marketing and  communicationsfood   safety and   qualityresearch and   developmentbell institute  of health and  nutritionchief strategy and  growth officerceo, chairman  of the board  nutrition general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people affordable nutrition general mills’ priorities have long  included providing nutritious foods and  increasing food security to support the  health and well-being of our consumers. nutrient-dense foods: nutrient density  is the per-calorie proportion of beneficial  nutrients in a food against nutrients  to limit. nutrient-dense foods are  important contributors of key nutrients  and food groups, including whole  grain, dairy, fruits and vegetables, nuts  and seeds, and vitamin and minerals,  while balancing nutrients to limit, such  as sodium, sugar and saturated fat.  at general mills, we provide a diverse  portfolio of products, including many  nutrient-dense foods like fortified whole  grain cereals, low-fat and nonfat yogurts,  granola bars, and frozen fruits and  vegetables, that can help consumers  meet dietary recommendations and  build healthy eating patterns. fortification: we fortify key products  in line with public health principles  including using evidence-based  decision-making to help guide the use  of nutrients in our foods. general mills periodically assesses population nutrient  intakes using nationally representative  dietary surveys to ensure our products  help meet consumer dietary needs. affordable and accessible: we believe in  providing affordable, accessible nutrient- dense foods that people love, such as  ready-to-eat cereal, low-fat and nonfat  yogurt, canned soup and vegetables, and whole grain granola bars. many of these  products, in addition to being widely  available in traditional retail outlets and  online, meet the nutrition standards for  u.s. federal nutrition assistance programs  (see related story on the next page).general mills is aligned with helping to reduce  population sodium intakes and supports the  u.s food and drug administration’s (fda)  recently released voluntary sodium-reduction  targets. we have a long history of significant  sodium-reduction efforts, including our    commitment to reduce sodium by  % in    key u.s retail product categories, which we  achieved in  . we are currently assessing  where our products fall relative to fda’s sodium  guidance, and building and activating plans to  continue our journey toward further reduction.  our sodium-reduction efforts also expanded  globally. as members of the international food  & beverage alliance (ifba), general mills and  other ifba member companies developed the  first-ever collective commitment by the food  industry to implement globally set standardized  targets for sodium reduction in manufactured  foods, which was launched in december  .  building on decades of members’ individual  efforts and experience in sodium reduction,  ifba members commit to global sodium  reduction with standardized, stepwise voluntary  targets for key categories of products to be  achieved incrementally by   and  .  the full commitment can be viewed here.   to help us continue making progress on our  sodium reduction journey, we have invested  in novel technical advancements that we  hope will allow additional significant and  meaningful sodium reduction while also  meeting consumer demands and food safety,  functional and shelf-life expectations.sodium spotlight  ¢ w on average, a  -ounce  serving of yoplait original  style yogurt is about   us   cents, and is an  excellent source of calcium  and good source of vitamin d.*  ¢ w at about us   cents per  serving on average, a bowl  of big g cereal with milk is a  great way to provide families  with key vitamins and  minerals and whole grain.** $ .  w on average, at less than  us$ .  per can, progresso  vegetable classic soups  can be an affordable,  convenient way to add  vegetables to a meal. each   -cup serving provides   ½ cup of vegetables.*  *ac nielsen based on   weeks ending  / / . **ap nielsen, december  .examples of product offerings  % vitamin d  % calcium % iron % dietary fiberproviding key nutrients many of our products meet u.s. regulatory criteria as good   sources of key nutrients and food groups that are lacking in many  people’s diets. in fiscal  , our north american retail volume  contained at least a good source of the following nutrients: general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people as part of our north american  foodservice business, general mills is a  longstanding partner of u.s. department  of agriculture (usda) feeding programs. we are a leader in providing great   tasting, nutritious, regulation-ready   menu solutions for child nutrition   programs, including the school breakfast  program (sbp), the national school lunch  program (nslp) and the child and adult   care food program (cacfp). we also   have supported the special supplemental  nutrition program for women, infants and  children (wic) for over   years and today  have over   wic-eligible products. we  support strong nutrition standards for  these programs and continually develop  new products and renovate existing  products to meet these standards.honey cheerios. designed just for k-   schools to meet the needs of  both operators and students,  honey cheerios is whole  grain-rich, gluten-free and  meets the sugar requirements  to be eligible for the cacfp.  k-  biscuits sodium renovation. our  foodservice team renovated our k-  biscuits,  making it easier for school foodservice  operators to meet weekly  sodium targets in the  school meal program.  cheerios oat crunch  berry. with  % whole  grain and   grams of sugar  per   cup serving, cheerios  oat crunch berry meets  the whole grain and sugar  requirements for wic.general mills’ support for usda feeding  programs goes beyond the products we  provide. our dedication to ensuring kids  are well fed and ready to learn also includes  resources such as the keep kids fed  toolkit. with the shift away from providing  free meals for all students — and instead  requiring families to apply for free and  reduced-priced school meals — school  food service operators were concerned  families eligible for benefits would not enroll  and some students would go hungry. in  response, general mills created a keep kids  fed toolkit to make it easy for operators  to spread the word about how families  can apply for free and reduced-priced  meals. the toolkit includes posters, flyers,  social media assets and information sheets.  learn more about general mills’ actions  to alleviate hunger and expand access to  school nutrition assistance programs.supporting u.s. nutrition assistance programs schools provide healthy meals   to all students, regardless of income.  every child deserves to be well fed and ready to learn. ask your school how to apply for    free and reduced meals   to see if your child qualifies for this   and other important educational benefits. r one of the ready-to-use resources from  the general mills keep kids fed toolkit plus up the nutrition of affordable, convenient  family favorites general mills provides educational material and simple meal ideas on bellinstitute.com focused on nutrient density,  affordability and convenience for a variety of our products. for example, old el paso taco dinner kits act as a  nutritious and convenient carrier for lean meat, low-fat dairy and vegetables, while progresso soup can easily be  paired with fruit, side salad and a glass of milk for an easy and satisfying meal, and a variety of our snack products  can be enjoyed throughout the day. + + lean protein fiber vegetables healthy fats calcium+ + + we are working to help  bridge the fiber gap in  uk consumers’ diets  through a variety of  actions across our  diverse portfolio of  brands. our actions include improving  the variety and nutrient density of  our offerings through innovation and  reformulation so that they help deliver  more fiber, fiber-rich food groups  and whole grain. we will amplify  these efforts through our brands,  communications, engagement and  support for events that encourage  people to enjoy higher fiber diets.  see our full commitment here.bridging the   fiber gap general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people global health  reporting over the years, we have made significant  progress reformulating products by  increasing positive nutrients, like whole  grain, fiber and iron, and reducing limiter  nutrients, like sodium and sugar. from  fiscal   to  , we tracked and  shared our progress through our u.s.  health metric reporting system, whereby  we improved the nutrition of our u.s.  retail sales volume by  % primarily by  increasing positive nutrients or decreasing  nutrients to limit. in fiscal  , we  updated and expanded our approach to  a new global health reporting system that  provides a transparent snapshot of the nutritional characteristics of our global  portfolio. the process for determining  which products qualify as nutrition- forward foods is based on established  nutrition criteria grounded in regulations,  dietary guidance and nutrient density. results: in fiscal  ,  % of general  mills global volume met our nutrition- forward criteria, including  % that met  the criteria by providing a meaningful  amount of a food group and  % that met  the u.s. food and drug administration’s  healthy criteria through limits on sodium  and saturated fat. our expansive and  diverse portfolio offers a delicious variety  of nutrient-dense products from every  food group to help support consumers  in building healthy eating patterns.*global health reporting excludes our pet segment. **nutrition-forward foods must meet the following criteria per labeled serving:in fiscal  ,    % of general   mills global volume  met the nutrition- forward criteria.**  results   %global health reporting * examples of general mills nutrition-forward foods from key product categories whole grain cereals  %  of our cereal  portfolio provides  at least   grams  of whole grain per  labeled serving big g cereals like original  cheerios, kix, fiber one,  chex and wheaties provides at least     grams of whole grain  per labeled servingproduct category global  impact featured  products nutrition- forward  criterialow-fat or nonfat yogurts  %  of our  yogurt portfolio  provides at least  ½ serving of low  or nonfat dairy yoplait yogurts like  yoplait original, light,  source and go-gurt provides at least   ½ serving of low-fat  or nonfat dairy per  regional definitionsnack bars  %  of our snack bar  portfolio provides at  least   grams of whole  grain or ½ serving  of nuts or seeds nature valley crunchy bars,  fiber one chewy bars oats and  chocolate, and annie’s chewy  granola bars oatmeal raisin provides at least     grams of whole grain   per labeled serving or   ½ serving of nuts or seedssoups  %  of our soup portfolio  meets fda healthy  criteria or provides ½  serving fruits/vegetables  per labeled serving progresso soups like  reduced sodium hearty  minestrone and light  vegetable & noodle soup meets u.s. fda healthy criteria  or provides ½ serving fruits/ vegetables per labeled servingfruits and vegetables  %  of our vegetable  portfolio provides  at least ½ serving  fruits/vegetables per  labeled serving a variety of cascadian farm frozen  fruits and vegetables, muir glen  tomatoes, betty crocker potatoes, a  variety of progresso canned beans provides at least   ½ serving of vegetables/  fruit per labeled servingn   at least   grams of whole grain, a ½ serving   of low-fat or nonfat dairy per regional   definition, or a ½ serving of fruits, vegetables   or nuts/seeds. ( % met these criteria.)n   meet u.s. food and drug  administration’s healthy criteria:     code of federal regulations   . . ( % met these criteria.) — or — general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people nutrition innovation at general mills, we are always looking  to the future and investing in product  innovation and renovation to stay  current in a dynamic environment.  nutrition innovation is a key piece of  how we will continue to meet evolving  needs and consumer preferences,  adapt to new scientific insights and  feed the world’s growing population. sustainable nutrition at general mills, our view of sustainable  nutrition focuses on how our ingredients  are grown, the nutrition of our foods and  the materials used to protect the food’s  nutrients, quality and safety. general  mills has a strong sustainability program  dedicated to reducing the environmental  impact of our ingredients and our  packaging by increasing our sourcing  from farms that implement regenerative  agriculture principles, as well as actively  transitioning to recyclable-by-design  materials (learn more in the planet section  of this report). we also focus on providing  nutrient-dense foods that contribute  healthful ingredients, including whole  grains and low-fat dairy, to the diet.  we believe packaged foods play an  important role in sustainable nutrition  by contributing shelf-stable, nutritious,  convenient and accessible foods  that meet our consumers’ family  traditions and food preferences.  personalized nutrition as consumers’ desire for personalized  nutrition expands, general mills works  to remain informed about emerging  nutrition research and continues to  provide innovative product offerings.  our diverse portfolio includes many products designed to meet the evolving  preferences of consumers who choose  their foods with specific nutrition and  lifestyle goals in mind. examples include: n   carb-conscious – our ratio brand  launched new keto-friendly products,  including a yogurt-cultured dairy snack  with granola toppings and a variety of  new cereal flavors for those with net  carbs in mind. good measure offers  blood sugar friendly snack bars —  convenient snack solutions that provide  fiber and nuts and have   grams or less  of net carbs — as an occasional snack  for consumers interested in limiting  their carbohydrate consumption.  wonderworks is our cereal brand designed with   grams of net carbs  and   grams of protein per serving. n   weight management –  fiber one  bars and brownies are smart choices  for consumers looking for tasty  ways to enjoy their favorite snacks  while managing their weight. our  yoplait light brand has been a  calorie-controlled yogurt for years  and was recently reformulated to  have less sugar and fewer calories. n   heart-healthy – cheerios original,  honey nut cheerios and the newest  flavor, strawberry banana cheerios,  are staples in many households, and  are made from whole grain oats,  which contain beta-glucan, a soluble fiber that can help lower cholesterol  as part of a heart-healthy diet. n   gluten-free – we offer many gluten- free products. general mills is the  third-largest producer of gluten-free  products in the u.s.* more than one in  four of our north american product  skus are labeled as gluten-free.** cereal partners  worldwide  our cereal partners worldwide (cpw)  joint venture with nestlé makes and  markets cereals globally outside north  america. cpw is committed to making  breakfast better by providing nutritious,  tasty and convenient breakfast cereals.  for more than a decade, cpw has  been improving the nutrient density of  its global product portfolio to increase  beneficial ingredients and nutrients that  are important to a balanced diet — such  as whole grain and fiber — and reduce  ingredients like sugar and sodium. actions: since  , cpw has increased  the use of whole grains significantly,  so that today  % of cpw’s breakfast  cereals portfolio has whole grain as  the number one ingredient. along  with international health organizations,  industry peers and other partners, cpw  and general mills participate in the  whole grain initiative, a global effort  to increase consumer awareness of the  importance of whole grains and promote  greater consumption of them. with  the initiative, cpw and general mills  support the annual international whole  grain day each november to encourage  consumption of whole grains worldwide.nature valley released a  reduced sugar vanilla  almond granola with   % less sugar* than  the leading granola  while providing an  excellent source of fiber  and  % of the daily value for iron, a  nutrient lacking in many people’s diets.in europe, our  new nature  valley fruit & nut  cranberry, raisin,  almond & peanut   bar is made with a unique combination  of  % whole grain oats, nuts and fruit.  each bar is high in fiber and has no  artificial flavors, colors or preservatives.product reformulation highlights *contains   grams of total sugar per  -gram  serving, compared to   grams in our leading   nature valley granola. *nielsen xaoc;   weeks ending  / / . **as of september  .r examples of our products that help satisfy consumers’ personalized nutrition needs. general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people our approach: grounded in our  belief that every individual, family and  community should be food secure and  free from hunger, general mills works to make more food available to those  in need. together with our nonprofit  partners, we work to ensure all members  of the community have reliable, equitable  access to a wide range of affordable  foods. we help to expand surplus food  recovery and charitable redistribution  of good food by supporting food bank  networks on six continents and other  nonprofits focused on ensuring the  world’s good food is used to nourish  people and doesn’t go to waste.  we collaborate with others to expand  our collective impact by investing  to scale solutions, catalyzing place- based approaches and sharing our  insights around the world through our  employees’ skills-based volunteerism (learn more). we also advocate for  policies that support long-term solutions  to reduce hunger and food waste.  learn more about our public policy  engagement to ensure people have  access to nutritious and sufficient food. increasing food  access and food  recovery capacity our actions: we donate general mills  food and work with partners around  the world — including food banks and  other anti-hunger organizations — to  alleviate hunger, expand food access and  build long-term community agency and  resilience. in  , we set a goal to enable    billion meals for hungry people by   , together with our nonprofit impact  partners. in  , we exceeded that goal.alleviating hunger help food banks grow capacity for  food recovery and redistribution n   donate general mills food to food banks n   provide grants that strengthen  food banks’ capacity to recover and  equitably distribute more food n   promote broad adoption of innovative  food recovery systems that make it easy  for food makers, grocers, restaurants,  distributors, schools and trucking  companies to donate food support vibrant community food  systems with equitable food access n   partner with civil rights and anti-hunger  organizations that are taking aim at  racial disparities in food security n    support culturally specific, locally driven  food solutions n   advocate for resources and policies to  drive long-term systems-level solutions  to end hungeralleviate child hunger n   strengthen the reach and impact   of school meal programs in our key  global markets n    in the u.s., increase food access   among lower income populations by  promoting participation in food and  nutrition assistance programs among  those who are eligiblehow we are supporting equitable food access and addressing  racial disparities in food securitywhat is food  security? food security, as defined by the  united nations’ committee on world  food security, means that all people,  at all times, have physical, social and  economic access to sufficient, safe  and nutritious food that meets their  food preferences and dietary needs  for an active and healthy life. without  enough nutritious food, people  experience hunger — the physical  manifestation of food insecurity.enabled worldwide by our food  donations and philanthropic  partners since   (including    .  billion meals in  ) —  exceeding our goal to enable     billion meals for hungry   people by  . .     billion meals general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people resources saved by recovering food what is food  recovery? also known as food rescue,  food recovery is the practice  of intercepting or gleaning  good surplus food that would  otherwise go to waste from  places such as farms, restaurants,  grocery stores, produce markets  and dining facilities and re- distributing that good food to  nonprofit organizations that are  working to ensure all community  members are food secure.food recovery reduces ghg emissions and conserves natural resources. general mills  donated more than  .  million pounds of food in fiscal  . based on the refed insights  engine impact calculator, the impact of keeping that food out of landfills is equivalent to   ,  passenger vehicles driven for   year. learn more in the planet section of this report. in the u.s., where  % of all food goes unsold or uneaten, food waste is responsible   for the following impacts:*  % of all   cropland use % of landfill inputs #  material (epa estimate) % of u.s. ghg  emissions % of all fresh  water use *source: refedto ensure no good food goes to waste  and that the world’s precious food is  used to nourish people, we leverage our  philanthropy as well as general mills’ deep  food system expertise to expand surplus  food recovery across the industry. our efforts and investments have resulted  in grocery stores, restaurants, food  distributors and thousands of other  businesses and food outlets around the  globe gaining and adopting systematic  food recovery solutions so that their good surplus food can be used to nourish  hungry people and not end up in landfills. since food waste and loss occur from  “farm-to-fork” and impact growers,  families, communities, the environment  and businesses, we engage with a wide  variety of partners to advance positive  change. we bring a systems lens and  take a collective impact approach to  the issue, working with cross-sector  coalitions and nonprofit organizations  around the globe. these activities include: n   expanding global knowledge  and insights about the most  scalable, high-impact solutions  to food waste and loss n   strengthening the capacity, safety and  efficiency of food banks worldwide n   investing and engaging to  catalyze innovative new surplus  food recovery solutionsretailers and food service operators  worldwide empowered to  participate in systemic food rescue  through our global investments  in food recovery technology.* food bank networks on six  continents strengthened using  support from general mills grants. ,    continents  million   meals enabled by donations of  general mills food worldwide  during  , contributing to    million meals since  .  progress *through mealconnect and fareshare go. mealconnect, created by feeding  america and funded by general mills,  is an innovative food recovery platform  that makes it easy for food makers,  grocers, restaurants, distributors, school  cafeterias and trucking companies to  efficiently donate surplus food. since   , mealconnect has enabled billions  of nourishing meals for food-insecure  people, while helping food banks to expand from distributing primarily  packaged food (retail store format)  to also providing prepared meals  from cafeterias, restaurants and other  foodservice outlets. n    , + food businesses have  donated their surplus food through  mealconnect n    + food transport companies have  adopted the platform n    . + billion pounds of food recovered,  equal to  . + billion mealsscaling up food recovery and distribution  general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people addressing racial  disparities in  food security our commitment to racial equity*:  as part of general mills’ commitment  to advance equitable food access,  we direct our philanthropy and align  employee volunteerism to support  food banks, anti-hunger and racial  justice organizations that are working  to target and close racial disparities in  food security given its disproportionate  impacts on communities of color. national partnerships: we are elevating  racial equity in food access through  partnerships with leading national civil  rights and anti-hunger organizations,  including feeding america, food  research & action center (frac),  naacp, no kid hungry and unidosus.  for example, through our more than  - year partnership with feeding america,  we are working to strengthen food bank capacity and disrupt racial disparities  across the u.s. our support of feeding  america in   included a us$ ,   contribution to support their equitable  food access grants program, which  combines support from multiple donors  to help   network food banks provide  nutritious food to people experiencing  the highest rates of food insecurity in  communities of color and rural areas. local partnerships: in our world  headquarters community of minneapolis,  minnesota, our latest local grants  included more than us$ .  million  to support an ecosystem of over    organizations driving equitable food  access solutions for black, indigenous  and other low-income communities  of color. examples of our partnerships  with bipoc-led organizations fostering  social justice, equitable local food  systems development and economic  opportunity in north minneapolis include: n   appetite for change is implementing  multipronged neighborhood-level  food access solutions, including  a farmers market, community  cafe, policy and advocacy, urban  agriculture, and food skills education.  n   pillsbury united communities is  reshaping the north minneapolis  food retail environment through the  north market, a full-service grocery  store offering food at affordable  prices while creating living wage  jobs and sourcing from local bipoc  farmers and food entrepreneurs.  learn more about how general mills is  strengthening equitable food access  and supporting bipoc entrepreneurs. see page   to read about how we  are strengthening equity in our twin  cities (minneapolis and st. paul)  grantmaking partnerships to increase  funding for organizations focused  primarily on improving the lives of black,  indigenous and/or people of color. n     in   black individuals n     in   native americans** n     in   hispanic individuals n     in   white individualsracial disparities among individuals  experiencing food insecurity:* *source: usda, september   **source: food insecurity among   american indians and alaska natives disproportionate  impact of food  insecurity *commitment includes equitable food access, equity in education and equity in representation.how our partners are expanding equitable   food access shown below are some of the many ways our national and local food access  partners are addressing racial disparities to improve food security. expanding  organizational  capacity culturally  appropriate  foods  foods   appropriate   for health issues   prevalent in communities  of color   partnering   with healthcare  resources serving  communities of color  equity and  advocacy  training  partnerships   in native american  communities partnerships  to support  immigrant  communities leveraging  u.s. federal  nutrition  programs community-   based  partnershipsequitable  procurement  and sourcingstrengthening  equitable food retail  and bipoc food  entrepreneurshipmobile  distributions  in urban  and rural  communities expanding  equitable  food accessin support for  +   twin cities partnerships  driving equitable food  access since june  $ .   million general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people alleviating  child hunger to reduce child hunger around the  world, we work with partners —  including food banks, school breakfast  club programs and other anti-hunger  organizations — in key markets ranging  from australia to canada, the u.k. and  u.s. to expand food security and build  long-term resilience for the future. recognizing that households with children  are more likely to be food insecure,* our  food access strategy includes support for  community outreach programs that help  families at risk of hunger enroll in food and  nutrition assistance programs, such the  u.s. supplemental nutrition assistance  program (snap). since schools are  powerful levers for increasing food  and nutrition security among children,  we also work to expand access to and  participation in school meal programs. our partnership with no  kid hungry helped schools  and communities across the  u.s. get the resources they  needed to help feed   million  meals to kids in fiscal  .**  million   meals *in   (during the second year of covid- ), more than   million children were living in food insecure households (  in  / .  million) and   in   individuals was at risk  of hunger ( . %/ .  million). source: u.s. department of agriculture. **no kid hungry does not provide individual meals; general mills’ donations help support programs that feed kids. learn more at nokidhungry.org/onedollarwe are working to help close the “school  breakfast gap” — the number of u.s. children  in low-income households who are eligible for,  but not participating in, free school breakfast  programs. the gap occurs when schools don’t  offer breakfast, or the way it is provided makes  it difficult for kids to participate. through  our partnerships with organizations such as  food research and action center (frac)  and no kid hungry, we are working toward  the goal of ensuring that all children have  daily access to a nourishing school breakfast. *the breakfast gap includes more than  .  million   u.s. children. source: frac school breakfast scorecard.closing the   breakfast gap* general mills has a long history of  supporting the work of no kid hungry  to end childhood hunger in the u.s.,  providing more than us$  million in  funding since  . our brands also  partner directly with no kid hungry.  together with our brands, general  mills has donated more than us$   million to no kid hungry over the past  ten years, including a us$ .  million  gift from cheerios in   in support  of no kid hungry’s work during the  covid-  crisis, underscoring the brand’s  commitment to doing good. examples  of our brands’ partnerships with no  kid hungry in   are featured here.partnering with no kid hungry r our big g business contributed  us$ ,  in october   to  help no kid hungry provide  .   million meals, including through the  #biggcerealforgood campaign to raise  awareness of the fact that one in eight  kids in the u.s. are living with hunger.r cheerios partnered with no kid hungry  and the fetch app during november and  december   to donate more than  us$ ,  to no kid hungry.   learn more . through frac’s support,   ,  children had access  to a daily meal in fiscal  .  ,   general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people *as of september  . does not include pet food products.our approach: at general mills, diverse  and evolving consumer needs are at  the center of our business. we include  the voice of our consumers in every  decision we make by understanding  their needs, motivations, values and  behaviors. we closely monitor key  food trends and macro forces that can  drive changes in the way people eat  and interact with our brands. we offer  products to meet consumers’ personal  nutrition preferences (see page    for details about our carb conscious,  weight management, heart healthy  and gluten-free options), new flavors  and varieties, plant-based  foods, and our leading  natural, organic and pet  food offerings. highlighted  here are a few examples of  our varied product portfolio.  plant-based foods consumers seek plant-based foods for  environmental, social and nutritional  reasons. our portfolio has long been  substantially plant-based, with flour,  breakfast cereals, snack bars, soups  and frozen fruits and vegetables. we  work both to ensure consumers know  our products are plant-based and to  grow the future of plant-based foods.  more than   of our products are  vegan,* including dairy-free go-gurt,  most lärabar products, annie’s fruit snacks and annie’s organic vegan  mac. in the yogurt aisle, oui by yoplait   and liberté offer dairy-free varieties.  cascadian farm brings plant-based  protein to granola bars and frozen  vegetable, grain and pulse blends. through our business development  and venture capital unit,   inc, we  invest in new brands poised to grow.  this includes many that are plant-based,  such as rhythm superfoods, maker of nutrient-dense snacks, and kite hill,  maker of almond-based non-dairy  products. everything legendary is our  latest partner. this black-owned business  makes plant-based burgers and grinds.  learn more about our investments  in food innovations on page  . natural and organic our business depends on a healthy  planet, so it is imperative that we  continue to seek ways to care for   it. since  , we have steadily  expanded our natural and organic  business to meet growing consumer  demand and embed sustainability  across our product portfolio. we  believe that organic farming is better  for people and the planet. our focus  on growing organic agriculture is one  of many ways we are fulfilling our commitment to advance regenerative  agriculture. we aim to drive  sustainability by leveraging the power  of our business to support the growth  of organic and regenerative farming. we offer a mix of certified organic  cereals, yogurt, frozen fruit and  vegetables, snacks, meals, and  baking products. one in nine  products in our north american  portfolio is certified organic or  made with organic ingredients.*  while each of our natural and organic  brands (see next page) is unique, they  all strive to accelerate regenerative  principles and to advance leading- edge sustainability programs that  can be leveraged throughout general  mills. learn more in the planet section  of this report about our commitment  to regenerative agriculture.diverse consumer needs r a few of general mills plant-based foods these varieties of  cascadian farm organic  cereal and baking flour  are made with kernza — a  perennial grain whose long  root systems benefit soil health,  sequester carbon  and protect   water quality.our natural and organic brands are committed to making food that is good for people and the planet. the product examples  below highlight the positive environmental impact of ingredients grown using organic and regenerative farming practices. annie’s organic macaroni and cheese is made  with organic wheat and milk, supporting organic  wheat growers and dairy farmers and having a  positive impact on the land. we purchased  .  million  gallons of organic milk in fiscal   for use in our  annie’s organic products. that milk came from  cows raised on organic farms — avoiding  ,   pounds of synthetic nitrogen fertilizer and   ,  pounds of pesticides that would  have been used on conventional farmland.epic beef bars with the  ecological outcome  verified symbol let  consumers know that  the beef is sourced from   farms that have  shown positive  impact on the land,  including reduced  carbon emissions.food benefiting people and planet r annie’s extreme cheese has  %   more cheese than our regular macaroni   and cheese — a direct response to  consumer feedback.  general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people *nielsen connect **nielsen iq natural pet treats dollar share xaoc + pet specialty (petsmart b&m + ecom & petco b&m + ecom) fy natural pet food blue buffalo has become the leading  natural pet food brand in the u.s.* by  feeding pets like family members. blue  buffalo is made with high quality, natural  ingredients with real meat as the first  ingredient and never any corn, wheat,  soy, poultry by-product meals, artificial  flavors or preservatives. the promise  to “love, feed and treat all dogs and  cats like family” guides everything blue  buffalo does — from industry-leading  standards for sourcing ingredients to  state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities.  in  , blue buffalo launched product  innovations for both cats and dogs. cats: we introduced blue tastefulstm,  a new portfolio of cat food products  specially crafted to appeal to even  the pickiest felines while delivering  high quality nutrition through natural  ingredients. nielseniq named blue tastefuls wet cat food a bases  top breakthrough innovation  award winner in october  . dogs: dog parents are seeking high  protein, meat-rich dog food for their  dogs. we reformulated our blue  wilderness dry dog food with even more  of the meat dogs love, plus wholesome  grains  — oatmeal, barley and brown  rice — for truly balanced nutrition, and  launched wilderness premier blend, a  nutrient-dense diet with tender meaty  cuts and antioxidant-rich lifesource bits.treats: with the   acquisition of  nudges, top chews and true chews  brands, the leaders in natural meat  treats for pets, blue buffalo is now the  #  natural treats brand in the u.s.** we continue to bring innovation to  the category with the launch of blue  to-go treats, convenient pocket-sized  packs, which are perfect for training,  treating and snacking on the go. v healthy ingredients  are part of the blue  buffalo promise to love  and feed all dogs and  cats like family. r learn more about our commitment to  providing natural, high quality pet food.  watch videoour natural and organic brands general mills is the   largest provider of natural  and organic packaged  food in the u.s.*#  *includes food for both humans and pets.  source: spins   weeks ending  / /   total – us mulo, natural enhanced channel  and pet channel. general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people our approach: today’s fast-changing   food landscape requires rapid innovation  and a steady stream of new ideas. general  mills has been a leader in food innovations  throughout our history, dating back to  advances in milling technology more than    years ago. we recently created our  disruptive growth team to fill the gap  between core innovation and acquisition —  and ensure we maximize ways to partner  with, learn from and grow with the external  entrepreneurial marketplace. the disruptive  growth team includes g-works, our  internal venture studio that is working to  solve big consumer problems with new  ideas, and   inc, our external venture  capital arm. in  , the disruptive growth  team’s efforts focused on opportunities  related to the impact of climate change on  food, increasing consumer personalization  and technology-enabled convenience.  g-works aims to solve big consumer  problems in food through innovation —   by unleashing our inner entrepreneur to  identify opportunities, develop breakthrough  solutions, and support brands using the scale  and capabilities of general mills to accelerate  their growth. g-works brands include: n   good measure nutrient-dense products  with little impact on blood sugar n   doolies snacks made with fruits that are  good for digestion and naturally occurring  fiber to support a healthy digestive  system and help kids avoid constipation n   bold cultr cheese alternative made  with proteins created through a  precision fermentation process  inc partners with entrepreneurs to  accelerate their growth by nurturing the  skills of founders and providing access to  a team of general mills functional experts  across marketing, sales, operations and  r&d who serve as partners to the brand  teams, helping them meet the evolving  needs of consumers faster than ever. in fiscal   , we continued to grow our   inc  portfolio and support for entrepreneurial  brands by investing in everything  legendary, a taste-forward, plant-based  meat company led by passionate founders  and targeted to the black community. we  also invested $  million in two early-stage  venture capital funds for minority and  female entrepreneurs. these investments  are part of general mills’ commitment to standing for good and promoting racial  and gender equity in representation  through economic opportunity: n   fearless fund founded by — and  investing in businesses led by — women  of color focused on bridging the gap  in venture capital funding to build  scalable, aggressive-growth companies n   supply change capital, a women and  latina powered venture firm investing  at the intersection of food, culture  and technology with a focus on  sustainability, health and diversityinvesting in innovation that drives disruptive growth “black americans are among the fastest-growing vegan  demographics in the country. we believe everything legendary  is poised for substantial growth — and we are just as energized  by the passion of these founders as we are about the business  opportunity. their plant-based, chef-created products are a  natural fit for   inc, where our mission is to discover and elevate  remarkable founders with innovative offerings.”  — doug martin, general mills chief brand and disruptive growth officer   inc partners as of october  , we   have nine partners. w through   inc,   general mills is  investing in everything  legendary, a   meat-free startup  company led by   black entrepreneurs.r g-works brands include good measure, bold cultr and doolies.  general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people consumer  education our approach: general mills provides  useful, fact-based information  on packages to help consumers  make informed dietary choices. all  of our product packages display  accurate nutrition labeling and  follow relevant nutrition and health  claim requirements as prescribed by  regulations in the country of sale. our commitment: as a member of  the international food and beverage  alliance (ifba), general mills has made a  commitment to adopt a common global  approach to nutrition information on  packaging that includes, at minimum,  the labeling of calories on front-of-pack. this initiative was implemented globally  during  –  to inform consumers  about specific product nutrition  attributes. in countries with front-of-  pack labelling requirements, we adhere  exclusively to the local regulation. we  also commit not to place any regulated  health or nutrition claim on a product  unless it meets the criteria set forth by  the regulations in the country of sale. our progress: around the world,  our product labeling meets local  regulatory requirements while remaining  consistent with our global approach.  examples of our compliance with local  and regional guidelines include:  n   australia –  % of our products  display nutrition intake information  in front-of-pack labeling, consistent with the australian daily intake  guide and ifba requirements.  n   brazil – all general mills  package information complies  with local regulations. n   mexico – all general mills package  information complies with local  regulations and includes front-of-pack  consumer information as directed  by the mexican health ministry. n   china – all general mills package  information complies with local  regulations and includes the energy  icon on the front of packaging. n   canada – all general mills package  information complies with health  canada and canadian food inspection  agency labeling requirements. n   europe – all general mills  package information complies  with european food information  to consumers regulation. n   united states – the majority of  our u.s. products feature front-  of-package labeling through  the facts up front program.responsible  marketing our approach: whether marketing  to children or adults, we present  the qualities and advantages of our  products truthfully, responsibly and  with appropriate taste. we take special  care with respect to child audiences.  we believe that children should be  encouraged to consume lower-calorie,  nutrient-dense foods that support their  growth and activity. learn more about  our commitment to maintain the highest  standards for responsible marketing. in all media and regardless of the  intended audience, we design all our  marketing to comply with applicable  law and we fully adhere to the  requirements of the international  chamber of commerce framework  for responsible food and beverage  marketing communications. in  addition, we ensure that our ads are  consistent with our core values. when  possible, our advertising aims to  reflect the diversity of society. and our  advertising reflects generally accepted  standards of social behavior, avoids  stereotyping people and never insults  or demeans any demographic groups. policies: general mills marketing  policies ensure that our commitment  to responsible marketing underlies  all of our marketing activities.consumer education  and marketing of our u.s. packaging  contains updated  date labeling to help  reduce food waste.* *as of october   %in the u.s., general mills supports product labeling changes to help  reduce food waste through clearer guidance for consumers about  food shelf life. we have updated all of our u.s. product packaging to  comply with this voluntary date-labeling initiative that uses standard  nomenclature to reduce consumer confusion. learn more about  general mills’ food waste reduction efforts on page   and in the  planet section of this reportdate labeling general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people governance: general mills marketing  policies are reviewed and updated  regularly by our company’s responsible  marketing council and reviewed  with the company’s chief executive  officer and other senior leaders of  our u.s. and international operating  units. the responsible marketing  council is responsible for drafting and  issuing marketing policies, ensuring  full compliance with the policies  through training and other initiatives,  and holding advisory reviews of  all new product development and  brand marketing plans for products  that will be marketed to children. global commitment: in all markets  around the world, general mills  has committed to not direct any  marketing to children under   for  any product unless that product  meets strict nutrition standards.   one of the ways  we make this  commitment is  through ifba, where  we are a founding  member of the ifba responsible  marketing commitment, which  mandates nutrition standards for child  marketing. in addition to the ifba  commitment, which applies globally,  we also adhere to comparable local or  regional commitments in many markets  around the world, where such programs  exist. in the united states, for example,  we are a founding and longstanding  participant in the children’s food and  beverage advertising initiative (cfbai),  which is operated by the better business  bureau. similar to ifba, cfbai has set  nutrition standards, and we commit to  refrain from directing any marketing to children under age   for any product  that does not meet these standards.  in any market where we are a member  of such a program (or where specific  regulatory requirements exist), we  apply the nutrition standards that are  applicable in that jurisdiction. in all other  cases, we follow the ifba commitment  nutrition standards, thereby assuring  that our commitment is global. our compliance track record with these  programs is extraordinarily strong.  cfbai, in particular, publishes a report  annually that addresses the compliance  of all of its participants. we are not  aware of any instance of noncompliance  by general mills in the past several  years, and cfbai has confirmed this  in its reports. in the unlikely event of  any instance of noncompliance, a core  function of our responsible marketing  council is to address such issues and  determine appropriate corrective action. beyond our commitments under the  programs noted above, we have made  additional responsible marketing  commitments that exceed industry norms. for example, we have adopted  industry-leading standards regarding  the responsible use of social media  platforms. we do not, in the context  of any child-directed communication,  encourage children to visit any social  media service for which they are too  young (according to the terms of  those services), nor do we use our own  presence on these social media platforms  to direct any communications to children. we have also long committed to refrain  from marketing food to children in  schools or at school events — and this  commitment applies to all schools,  even middle schools and high schools.  this commitment covers all forms of  marketing (beyond the identification of  the brand and product on menus and  packaging). for example, we do not  depict or display food brands, products  or logos on posters, signs, scoreboards  or school equipment, nor do we market  foods by distributing product samples or  branded merchandise in schools. there  are no exceptions to this commitment.  in the u.s., we operate the box tops for  education™ school fundraising program which, through sales of our   products and those of many other  companies (often nonfood companies),  has provided us$  million to  schools since the program’s inception  in  . though schools are the  beneficiaries of this program, we  refrain from marketing the program  to school children (whether inside or  outside the school environment).we collect and use consumer personal  data for a variety of purposes, including  to provide recipe-related publications to  consumers who subscribe for these, to  run sweepstakes, contests and loyalty  programs, to ensure that our advertising  is directed to relevant audiences, and  to otherwise improve our product and  service offerings. we are sensitive to the privacy concerns of our consumers and  are fully committed to complying with  regulations, including the eu general  data protection regulation (gdpr)  and  the california consumer privacy act. in addition to meeting changing legal  requirements in this area, general mills  is committed to acting responsibly and  transparently to continue to earn and maintain the trust of our consumers with  respect to our collection, retention and  use of personal data. we also maintain  safeguards to control against the loss  of personal data or the unauthorized  access, use, disclosure, destruction or  modification of personal data. learn  more in our data privacy policy.*data privacy *links to main u.s. policy as an example. general mills has additional privacy policies specific to other parts of our business globally. general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people our approach: at general mills, we are  committed to increasing transparency  about our food. we recognize that  consumers, regulators, investors and other  stakeholders seek information about our  products and processes. consumers want  to know what’s in their food, where it  comes from and how it is prepared. they  also want assurance that food has been  grown and harvested in a responsible  and sustainable manner that respects  people, animals and the environment. we continue to increase transparency by  providing information to key stakeholders  when and where they need it. for example,  to help consumers learn more about what  is in their food, we provide information in  multiple ways — on packages, through  our company and brand websites, on  our brands’ social media channels and  on third-party sites, such as e-commerce  and transparency platforms. in addition,  we actively support public policy efforts  to inform consumers and increase their  awareness about our products — these  efforts are detailed on the public policy  for the greater good page of our website.product information: we provide  consumers with answers to questions  about our food at askgeneralmills.com.  topics range from food ingredients to  gluten-free products and use of bio- engineered ingredients (also known  as genetically modified organisms,  or gmos). more than  ,  users  visited the website during fiscal  . in the u.s., we provide product details  through smartlabel™, an industry  initiative that seeks to share digital  product information with consumers.  we also enroll products — especially  our organic products — in the u.s.  non-gmo project, a nonprofit  organization that provides information to consumers and third-party verification  for non-gmo food and products. ingredient sourcing: we are committed  to sustainable sourcing of the ingredients  used in our products, and we regularly  share information about our progress.  for example, we disclose information  about our purchase of roundtable on  sustainable palm oil (rspo) certified  palm oil volumes on our website along  with an updated list of all our palm  oil suppliers down to the mill level to  facilitate transparency and accountability  in our extended supply chain. details  about our ingredients, how they are  sourced and how we engage with  farmers are included in the ingredient  sourcing content in the planet section  of this report. to provide transparency  about the way our ingredients are grown,  we feature details on product packaging,  including some of our annie’s macaroni  and cheese boxes and epic beef bars. biotechnology: the safety of our  products is our highest priority, and we  find broad global consensus among  food and safety regulatory bodies that  approved bio-engineered crops are  safe. we agree with the un’s world  health organization (who) that the  development of bio-engineered crops  and derived ingredients offers the  potential for increased agricultural  productivity and improved nutritional  value that can enhance human  health and development. we have  been disclosing the presence of  bio-engineered ingredients on our  u.s. packages since  . globally  we will continue to comply with  all labeling requirements in every  market in which we operate. pesticide use: we recognize that some  consumers and stakeholders have  concerns about the use of pesticides. in  today’s global agriculture system, where  plant pests and diseases are responsible  for losses of   to  % of all food  production, farmers rely on pesticides,  fertilizers and other tools to protect crops.  as a key participant in this system, food  safety is always our number one priority,  and we maintain a comprehensive system  of controls and processes to ensure the  highest level of product quality and safety.  we have long been a leader in sustainable  agriculture practices that  reduce  the need for pesticides to be used in  agriculture. we detail our work in this area  on our comprehensive pesticide, food  safety and ecosystems health web page.transparency our first muir glen canned green tomato product — petite diced   and fire roasted organic tomatoes available at whole foods stores —   highlights general mills’ ongoing support for planting pollinator- friendly habitats. tomatoes, along with other fruits, vegetables and  nuts, require pollination, so healthy and abundant populations of   bees and other insects are a priority for general mills. we work with  our suppliers and leading conservationists to conserve and expand  bee habitats. highlighting pollinator habitat support   progress transparency *as of september  products listed on smartlabel.org* products enrolled in  the u.s. non-gmo  projecttopics covered on askgeneralmills.com  ,    r in  , we launched cascadian farm   and annie’s granola bars with packaging  indicating the products are made in  peanut-free facilities.   general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people in this section nclimate change neliminating deforestation nregenerative agriculture nwater stewardship npackaging nsustainable operations nresponsible sourcing nanimal welfarerenewable electricity  sourced for our  global operations.of packaging recyclable   in our north america  retail and foodservice  operating segments. % % acres engaged through  programs designed to advance  regenerative management. , planet general mills global responsibility    food       planet       people at general mills, our business is inherently dependent on the earth and its natural  resources. we know that a healthy planet is critical for our company to continue making  food the world loves. unfortunately, the negative impacts of climate change today are  widespread and severe. this past decade was the warmest ever recorded, bringing with  it extreme weather events that create real business challenges for us, from distribution  disruptions to lower ingredient yields. climate change, coupled with growing demand,  compels us to evaluate how we increase resilience, for the planet, people, and our business. but i’m happy to say that we are stepping up to this challenge. led by our newly  formed global impact governance committee (gigc), we are adapting our enterprise  operating model to transform how we work to achieve our ambitious goals. it’s  imperative we progress with scale and speed to reverse the negative impacts of  climate change and support mother nature’s return to health. this is no longer solely  the responsibility of the central sustainability team; it’s the work of many. sustainability  must not be siloed from the business, but inseparable from it. early work of the gigc has enabled further prioritization of our global impact  initiatives. while general mills has established many important commitments, we are  differentially focusing on and investing in three areas where we have the capabilities  and processes to drive the largest impact for society. those priority commitments are  reducing greenhouse gas emissions across our value chain, advancing regenerative  agriculture, and designing our packaging to be recyclable or reusable. while we are in the early days of integrating global impact into the business and across  key functions, we know we need to drive systemic change if we aim to hit our goals,  and we believe these new structures and clear prioritization will help to accelerate  progress toward our ambitions. thank you for your interest in our work to create a more resilient future for   people and planet. sincerely, mary janefrom our chief sustainability and global impact officer mary jane melendez chief sustainability and  global impact officer general millsreduce value chain  greenhouse gas  emissions by  % by    (compared to     baseline). f  progress:  % reduction  across entire value chain;   % reduction in owned  operations (scope   and  )ghgcommitments and fiscal   progress advance regenerative  agriculture on   million  acres of farmland   by  . f  progress:  ,  acres  engaged through programs  designed to advance  regenerative managementgeneral mills brands  will design  %  of packaging to be  recyclable or reusable   by   (by weight). f  progress:  % achieved  in our north america   retail and foodservice  operating segments champion the  regeneration of water  resources in priority  watersheds. f  progress: ongoingsource  % renewable  electricity for our global  operations by  . f  progress:  % achievedreduce food waste in   our operations by  %   by   (compared to    baseline). f  progress:  % reduction achieve zero waste to  landfill at all owned  production facilities   by  . f  progress:  % achievedassess and address our  human rights impacts  in alignment with the  united nations guiding  principles on business  and human rights. f  progress: ongoingwork toward purchasing  eggs, pork and poultry  from more humane  livestock systems.   progress: ongoing greenhouse   gasregenerative  agriculturepackaging food waste human rightsrenewable   electricity animal welfare zero waste   to landfillwater general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people united nations sustainable  development goals: general mills  supports the united nations sustainable  development goals, a set of   broad   goals and   more- specific targets to  drive the   agenda for sustainable  development globally. we focus on  the goals that most closely align with  the company’s priority issues and  areas of long-standing commitment,  investment and progress. leadership and governance: the  global impact governance committee  (gigc), led by our chairman and ceo  and overseen by the board’s public  responsibility committee, is accountable  for our sustainability program. the  chairman and ceo convenes the gigc at  least three times each year to establish,  direct and oversee general mills’ positions on matters of significance to the company  and its stakeholders concerning corporate  social responsibility, environmental and  sustainability issues, and philanthropy.  these matters are included in our  chairman and ceo’s annual performance  objectives and impact his compensation.  the gigc, which was formalized in   , is an evolution from the previous  sustainability governance committee  and reflects the continued integration of  sustainability into the company and the  understanding that our ambitious targets will require alignment, operationalization  and investment across the company. further oversight of the company’s  sustainability work is provided by the  board’s public responsibility committee,  which regularly reviews the company’s  sustainability objectives, strategies and  performance. the company’s chief  sustainability and global impact officer  stewards the company’s sustainability  work, reporting to the chief strategy and  growth officer, and working closely with  other key business leaders to develop, coordinate and execute programs  to achieve company-wide targets. public policy: we actively engage in  public policy discussions to advance  our environmental initiatives, including: n   leading on regenerative agriculture n   combating climate change n   advancing water stewardship n   addressing packaging n   reducing food waste learn more in the introduction   section of this report. r general mills helps to address these united  nations sustainable development goals  through the programs and performance  described in this section.board of directors’ public responsibility committee chief strategy and  growth officerchief supply chain officerglobal impact   governance committee ceo, chairman of the board chief financial officer chief supply chain officer chief innovation, technology  and quality officer chief strategy and growth officer chief human resources officer group president, north  american retail group president, pet chief communications officer general counsel and secretary vp, chief sustainability   and global impact officervp, global sourcing vps, supply chainceo, chairman of the board r building team capacity for learning:  the general mills global impact team  participated in an immersive learning  experience on agricultural resilience. they  visited white oak pastures in bluffton, ga,  where we source protein for epic meat  products, and saw first-hand the impact that  a regenerative approach has on the land,  animals and a rural community. general mills is recognized as a global leader in sustainability*   best corporate  citizens   –    bl mediaamerica’s most  sustainable companies    – barron’s  member   ftse goodmember of dow jones  sustainability north america   and world indicesamerica’s most   responsible companies    – newsweek *recognitions as of december  .  general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people at general mills, we recognize that  dairy is a significant contributor to our  greenhouse gas footprint and to global  emissions overall. we also know that dairy  is important in the context of water as it  relates to water quality and manure and  nutrient management. that’s why we  are taking a leadership role in creating —  and expanding — programs in dairy to  improve the impacts of dairy on animal  welfare, farmer profitability and climate. in north america, our regenerative  agriculture pilot program started with  three dairies in michigan, and we have  since expanded significantly throughout  the great lakes region and canada.  our partnership with the national fish and wildlife foundation (nfwf)  helps to expand the scale and reach of  our impact through partner projects  that advance regenerative agriculture  implementation and water outcomes  (see map). understanding the enormous  potential in dairy, we continue to target  our main supply sheds and to create  programs appropriate for each geography  and context. in late  , general mills  launched its first regenerative agriculture  pilot in europe to support farmers who  supply milk for häagen-dazs ice cream. our new partners in quebec, logiag and  regeneration canada, are supporting  scaling regenerative agriculture to another  important supply shed for general mills. in the coming year, we will launch whole  farm ghg modeling to improve data  on a variety of management practices  and dairy systems (including manure),  with a focus on finding greenhouse  gas and financial “leaks” in dairy farm  systems to reduce environmental impacts  while saving money for the farmers.  regeneration canada advances holistic  farmer engagement and leadership to  ensure that regenerative agriculture  reflects farmer needs and whole-farm  context. we are working closely with  suppliers in all three dairy supply sheds  to identify farmers ready to advance  regenerative agriculture and whole farm  ghg modeling on their dairy operation.example: positive impacts of regenerative dairyin  , general mills launched a goal to  sustainably source   priority ingredients by   . while we achieved this goal in  ,  our work continues to ensure access to high- quality ingredients as well as to manage the  social, economic and environmental impacts  of our ingredients. through the results of  our sustainable sourcing work, we learned  that we need to take a holistic approach to  regenerating ecosystems and advancing human rights in order to more fully actualize  opportunities that catalyze change. this  begins with understanding how systems —   such as climate, agriculture, water,  biodiversity, and farming communities —  are all interconnected and how we as a  company can positively impact each. with that knowledge, we have evolved from  individual ingredient strategies to programs that help regenerate the planet while also  creating positive outcomes for people. to  the right is how we have shifted our focus  for the   sustainable sourcing priority  ingredients. please refer to the regenerative  agriculture, eliminating deforestation, water  stewardship, human rights and animal  welfare sections for more detail on our  strategies for these and other ingredients.our journey toward regeneration individual ingredient strategies cocoa corn vanilla dairy oats fiber packaging wheat sugarcane sugar beets palm oilfromevolving our approach strategies that regenerate the planet   and create positive outcomesto climate animal welfare forest positiveregenerative  agriculture water stewardship human rights s we are building the capacity of local service providers and farmers to understand dairy context and select regenerative approaches  that help to achieve positive outcomes. program regionsfocus on positive  outcomes general mills regenerative  agriculture pilot  farming communitiesgreat lakes,  quebec climate, biodiversity,  animal welfare,  soil health, farmer  profitability, water qualitynational fish &  wildlife foundation  partnership projectsgreat lakes general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people as a global food company, general mills  recognizes the risks that climate change  presents to humanity, our environment  and our livelihoods. changes in climate not  only affect global food security but also  impact general mills’ raw material supply.  this in turn affects our ability to deliver  quality, finished product to our consumers  and ultimately, value to our shareholders. nearly half of the greenhouse gas (ghg)  emissions and   percent of water  use throughout our value chain occur  upstream of our direct operations, in  agriculture, ingredients and packaging.  this is where we can achieve the greatest  reduction in our environmental footprint  while ensuring the long-term availability  of ingredients and improving the climate  resilience of farming communities. effectively addressing ghg emissions,  reducing climate change impacts and  doing our part to tackle food security  challenges requires an innovative, holistic  systems approach. agriculture presents  a complex challenge, given volatile externalities like weather, market demand  and viable adaptation choices. risks vary  according to crops, growing regions and  local markets. an effective approach  requires continuous learning and  adjustment as well as balancing multiple  interests such as environmental impacts,  food security and farmer livelihoods.  our climate policy establishes the  broad framework from which specific  targets and action plans will flow. our goal general mills was the first company to  publish a full value chain goal approved by  the science based targets initiative (sbti),  in  . in  , we published our climate  commitment in alignment with  .  degrees  celsius guidance. that guidance was  set by the scientific community to limit  further planetary warming and minimize  catastrophic outcomes, like crop failures,  biodiversity loss and water scarcity. our commitment is to reduce absolute  greenhouse gas emissions across our full value chain* by  % by   (compared  to  ) and achieve net zero emissions  by  . as only a small portion of  our ghg footprint is from our owned  operations, our goals go beyond our walls,  addressing scopes  ,   and   emissions. fiscal   progress: general mills is  focused on advancing work to reduce  our climate impacts. through fiscal  ,  we reduced emissions by  % across our  entire value chain compared to the    baseline. within our owned operations,  however, we have reduced emissions  (scope   and  ) by  % compared to  last year and  % compared to our    baseline. these reductions were  driven by continued progress in our  commitment to sourcing renewable  electricity, improvements in operational  waste disposal and reduced purchasing  requirements. we continue to drive  energy efficiencies in our operations  and are now sourcing renewable  electricity for  % of general mills owned  operations globally. see the sustainable  operations section for additional details.  scope   emissions remain a challenge  to our full value chain progress. that is why we are in the process of developing  an enhanced climate roadmap to  ensure we continue to see emissions  reductions at a rate that will achieve  our   and   goals. through this  work we will be outlining several key  strategies to further strengthen our  greenhouse gas reduction efforts. this year we also updated our ghg  accounting methodology in multiple  areas including home consumption,  transportation and select ingredients.  this change has increased the impact  our downstream practices have on our  ghg footprint. see the appendix for  additional details on our ghg emissions  and calculation methodology.climate change *consistent with science based target initiative (sbti) guidelines, our goal focuses on the categories of ghg emissions that are the most impactful and actionable for general mills (approximately  % of our total value chain footprint in  fy ). it excludes emissions such as low-volume ingredients, capital goods, employee commuting, franchises, downstream warehouse and storage at retail, consumer trips to store and end of life (consumer food waste). ghg emissions: goal and progress   sbti  target   baseline*    results*   results*% change   vs  % change   vs baseline total general mills - %  .   .   .   % - % scope   +   (market-based)** - %  .   .   .  - % - % scope   sbti target boundary  current fiscal amount- %  .   .   .   %  % *emissions noted in million mtco  e **market-based scope   reporting considers any contractual instruments that may be used in competitive energy markets, such as green tariffs, renewable certificates, or ppas.our climate commitment our progress *reduction in ghg  emissions across the  value chain by   greenhouse gas  emissions by  net   zero  % reduction across entire  value chain % *compared to fiscal   baselinereduction in owned operations  (scope   and  ) % general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people *percentages next to each phase represent the portion of general mills’ fiscal   value chain ghg emissions footprint **wheat, dry corn, oats, sugar beets ***cocoa, soybean oil and sugarcane represent nearly half of otherconsuming   ( %)  selling   (< %)  shipping   ( %)   key drivers warehouses  %truck  %other modes  %producing   ( %)    key drivers fuel  %  %electricity  %otherpackaging   supply chain ( %) key drivers fiber  %metal  % other  %plastic  %agriculture and  transformation ( %) key drivers dairy  %row crops**  % meat  %  %other***greenhouse gas emissions across the value chain* key drivers business  travel  %häagen-dazs   shops    %office  buildings  %key drivers home   cooking  % home   storage  %end of  life  % commercial  baking  % as agriculture drives our  largest climate impact,  we must adapt farming  practices to reduce   land-based emissions.drive emission reductions  across all aspects of dairy  operations and value chains,  including animal feed,  enteric emissions, manure  and on-farm energy.advance work to eliminate  deforestation in supply  chains across select high-risk  ingredient categories.source renewable electricity  for  % of general mills  owned operations globally  and evaluate external supply  chain opportunities.work with transport carriers  to leverage more ghg- efficient equipment, shift to  lower-ghg transport modes,  optimize truck fill rates and  reduce empty miles.with more than  % of our  emissions occurring in scope   , partnerships to advance  our suppliers’ decarbonization  plans are critical to impact  our full value chain.our goals for   and   are aggressive, but needed, to achieve a stable climate. in order for general mills to hit these targets, we need to collaborate across our value chain and  drive systemic change. we have identified several key levers to help us achieve our climate commitment, and we are actively building strategies to drive progress in these areas. more  detail on each of these areas can be found throughout the planet section. dairykey levers to achieving our climate commitment regenerative  agriculturesupplier  engagementtransportation  efficiencyrenewables eliminating  deforestationghgwe directly control only a small  portion of our value chain, so driving  transformation across the entire system  requires leadership and collaboration  with suppliers, farmers, ingredient and  packaging producers, product transport  providers, retailers and consumers. combating climate change also requires  collective action across industries and  our broader society. we participate in  the following initiatives: n   science based targets initiative (sbti) n   business ambition for  . °cn   we mean business n   we are all in pledge n   un caring for climate declaration n   business for nature’s call to action n   climate collaborative n   project drawdownn   supplier leadership on climate  transition program (s-loct) n   consumer goods forum  race to zero task forcecollaboration general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people our approach recognizing the need to accelerate our  progress in reducing emissions, general  mills is working to advance our internal  climate focus from footprint accounting  to mitigation plans and execution through: building mitigation strategies: we are  partnering with leading sustainability  consultants to update and enhance  our enterprise climate plan to move  beyond understanding our greenhouse  gas footprint to actively building mitigation strategies. in parallel,  we are resourcing internal teams  across our business to implement  projects and new ways of working  that will avoid or reduce emissions.  driving progress on key levers:  beyond regenerative agriculture, we  see additional opportunities to lower  our greenhouse gas footprint, including  driving emission reduction across dairy,  eliminating deforestation in supply chains  across high-risk ingredient categories, sourcing renewable electricity, and  leveraging more ghg-efficient  equipment and transportation. we are  actively working and planning future  action across this breadth of initiatives.  engaging suppliers: we are also  engaging our suppliers to reduce their  own ghg emissions. we have work in  process with suppliers in key categories to  encourage them on their climate journey,  including setting targets and developing  abatement strategies (see next page). greenhouse gas core team composed of  cross-functional members across global impact,  innovation, technology and quality, procurement,  transportation, energy, and marketingselected and began to integrate  rd party  climate consultants — south pole — into our  enterprise climate plan development piloted six ghg lever teams across   general mills’ strategic focus areas to  develop with south pole the general mills  climate roadmapinvested in data and technology capabilities  and ghg accounting accessibility to enable  faster reporting and target setting supportcreation of the greenhouse  gas operating modelsouth pole selected  as partners in climate  roadmap development ghg-focused lever  teams commissioneddata & technology climate  success enablersghgdeveloping our  climate roadmap phase   align and measure phase   strategize and plan phase   share and mobilizegeneral mills has engaged climate consulting  company south pole to help us create a  comprehensive enterprise climate plan to reach  our   and   targets. this work will provide  greater detail into the interventions general  mills is planning to activate against to achieve  these targets. south pole is taking a thoughtful  and thorough approach, consisting of a phased  strategy for our climate plan development. we  are excited to share this plan with stakeholders  in  , along with an enhanced glide path  to our   and   climate ambitions.  n   isolate key hot spots in ghg footprint  to enable greatest reductions n  brainstorm new reduction opportunities n   collect data and align on adoption  assumptions for each intervention n   run modeling scenarios to both     and   n   charter projects for first phase of ghg   reduction work n   socialize and educate around ghg   enterprise climate plan s we have created six lever teams to identify greenhouse gas reductions for their area and develop glide paths aligned with our climate goals. dairy forest-positive  ingredientssource regenerative  agriculture/ technologytransportation petour actions this year we have focused on laying the groundwork for our climate roadmap and investing in resources and capabilities that will  enable us to drive progress against our goals. key actions in   include: general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people risk management climate change is included as a strategic risk in our company-wide   enterprise risk management (erm) process. to better understand our   climate risk, in   general mills commissioned trucost/s&p global to assess   its climate-related transition and physical risks and opportunities in line with the  tcfd recommendations.task force on climate-related financial disclosures metrics and targets  in alignment with the most recent sbti  . °c guidance, general mills will reduce  absolute ghg emissions across our full value chain (scopes  ,   and  ) by  %   by   (compared to  ). by  , we will achieve net zero ghg emissions  across our full value chain. we report on our metrics and targets annually in our  cdp climate disclosure.the task force on climate-related financial disclosures (tcfd) develops voluntary, consistent climate-related financial risk disclosures for companies to provide information to stakeholders.  general mills supports this initiative and is committed to providing our stakeholders with relevant information on climate-related issues. a summary of our approach to each of the key pillars  can be found below. additional details on how we address the recommendations can be found in the tcfd index in the appendix in our cdp climate disclosure. governance strategy risk  management metrics   and   targetsgovernance the board’s public responsibility committee provides oversight of the company’s  sustainability work — including our climate program. in addition, our chairman   and ceo convenes the global impact governance committee at least three   times each year to review and approve climate-related strategies,   programs and key investments.strategy  as the majority of our overall greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions occur outside of  general mills operations, our climate strategy focuses on driving transformation  and reducing emissions across our entire value chain. our general mills policy on  climate outlines our approach to mitigation, adaptation, disclosure and advocacy.at general mills, we know that we cannot achieve our ambitious  climate commitments alone. with a majority of our greenhouse  gas (ghg) footprint upstream of our operations, we recognize  the importance of engaging our suppliers on this journey. for  this reason, we joined the supplier leadership on climate  transition program (s-loct), an international community of  over   suppliers and   brands across   countries focused  on training and education to enable greenhouse gas reductions.  through this program, we’re helping suppliers understand and  calculate their greenhouse gas footprint, identify opportunities  to reduce their emissions and prepare to set targets that are  aligned with the science-based targets initiative. s-loct is set  up to be a pre-competitive space, so that the learnings can be  used to drive benefits  not just at general mills,  but across the industry.  learn more about  s-loct.engaging across our value chain suppliers brands customers to support our broader climate goals, general mills brands   are working to incorporate climate-friendly decisions into their  business. nature valley has evolved their traditional commercial  production approach to a custom-created sustainable approach  for each production focused on reducing the amount and/ or the type of equipment typically used. for example, they  employed ‘green the bid’ to conduct a commercial production  in california’s redwood national state park incorporating waste  diversion, e-waste management, elimination of plastic bottles  on set and net emission offsets via forestry projects in panama.  they also consulted  with local park rangers  and a representative  from the national park  foundation to ensure  respectful treatment   of the incredible   shoot location. general mills is partnering with our retailers on the good for  the future program, which creates opportunity to connect  with customers and consumers through shared values. we  partner on retailer events focused on driving incremental  merchandising on brands with a planet-forward action. this  group currently consists of   customers selected due to their  scale as well as commitment to sustainability and combating  climate change. we estimate that together these customers  account for approximately one-third of our customer-related  scope   emissions. we are also partnering with key retailers  to advance  our nature  commitments,  help consumers  navigate in store  and increase the  convenience of  sustainable items. general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people our approach  at general mills, we recognize that  eliminating deforestation and preserving  natural ecosystems are essential to  meeting our climate commitment. to  drive positive outcomes for both people  and planet, we are focused on forest- positive strategies for commodities at  high risk of deforestation and where we  can make a meaningful impact. these  include palm oil, cocoa, cashews and  corn from brazil. as a result of our recent  climate footprinting work, we know  that collectively the production of these  ingredients makes up approximately  %*  of our ingredient-derived ghg emissions,  and most of those emissions come  from land use change. by eliminating  deforestation in these commodities, we  are not only protecting our forests, but  also the people who depend on them. general mills is a founding member of  the consumer goods forum forest  positive coalition of action, formally  launched in september  , which  requires member companies to  collaboratively work toward a forest- positive future, and proactively work with  suppliers to mainstream deforestation- free production across their business.  click here to view more on the  forest positive coalition of action. we recognize that deforestation and  land use change have significant  impacts for climate change. that’s  why we are looking to the work of  sbti, in particular the newly released  forest, land and agriculture (flag)  guidance, as well as where we can  drive impact as we continue to evolve  our strategies and programs.  palm oil: general mills is a relatively  small buyer of palm oil, but we  recognize that our purchasing practices  and cross-sectoral collaboration  toward deforestation-free palm oil  can positively impact ecosystems  and people as well as drive progress  toward our science-based target and  reduce scope   ghg emissions. to help ensure our palm oil purchases  do not contribute to deforestation of  the world’s rainforests or negatively  impact the communities and habitats  that depend on them, we have sourced   % of our palm oil as roundtable  on sustainable palm oil (rspo)  certified sustainable since  . our statement on palm oil sourcing  lays out the principles we expect of  direct suppliers, to ensure that they are  in line with industry best practices, and  contains information on our palm oil  metrics, traceability, supplier mill list,  and grievance process. our approach,  as well as the industry approach, to responsible palm oil is continually  evolving, and we are committed to  working with our suppliers, peers and  partners to support the development  of a forest-positive, people-positive and  climate-positive palm oil supply chain. general mills is actively engaging its  suppliers in direct review of their palm  oil production and sourcing practices,  traceability to mill, and evolving where  possible to traceability to production.  we work closely with our suppliers  and industry partners, like proforest, to  build sustainability performance and  compliance with our commitments  through active score carding,  conversations and collaboration. as  part of our effort to advance progress,  general mills uses the no-deforestation,  no-peat and no-exploitation  implementation reporting framework  (ndpe irf) — a reporting tool designed  to help companies understand and  track progress in delivering ndpe  commitments, including deforestation- free supply chains. click here to view our  ndpe irf profile, updated august  .eliminating deforestation the world bank estimates  that   million people  depend on forests for  sustenance and income. **  milliongeneral mills is collaborating with musim  mas group to implement a program at origin  designed to integrate independent smallholders  from villages neighboring the leuser ecosystem  in aceh singkil, sumatra, indonesia, into the  sustainable palm oil supply chain. through this  partnership, we are investing in a smallholder  hub program focused on improving the  economic security of smallholders and  assisting smallholders on their journey toward  sustainable production through collaboration  with local government. investment from  general mills supports the capacity building  of village extension officers who provide good  agricultural practice, financial literacy, and  ndpe training and resources to smallholders.supporting sustainable  palm oil production w engaging smallholder farmers to improve  sustainable farm management *based on our fiscal   corporate ghg footprint results **source: world bank, https:/ /www.worldbank.org/en/topic/forests/forests-area general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people cocoa: the vast majority of our cocoa  supply comes from west africa,  mostly through our key suppliers barry  callebaut and cargill. we work closely  with ngo and supplier partners on  the ground in ghana and côte d’ivoire  and invest in sustainable sourcing  programs with a focus on protecting  and restoring natural resources,  strengthening smallholder farmer  livelihoods, empowering women,  preventing and remediating child labor,  and advancing sustainable practices.  in  addition to supplier programs, general  mills and care international launched  the cocoa sustainability initiative (csi) in   to improve smallholder  cocoa farmers’ livelihoods and well- being in ghana and côte d’ivoire.  the program holistically supports  smallholder farmer communities,  including through good agricultural  practices (gap) training, improved  access to inputs and strengthening  of agricultural cooperatives.  general  mills also partners with pur to support  smallholder cocoa farmers with clean  cookstoves for improved health,  income diversification and stronger  livelihoods, and ecological resilience  through agroforestry programs in ghana  and côte d’ivoire (see box below).in march  , we signed on to the  world cocoa foundation’s cocoa  and forests initiative (cfi) to combat  deforestation in key cocoa growing  regions. through this initiative we  have worked closely with suppliers,  stakeholders and proforest to identify  strategic actions to protect and restore  forests, increase sustainable production,  and promote social and community  engagement. our cfi action plans and  progress to date for ghana and côte  d’ivoire can be viewed here. as we  continue our work with cfi in our key  cocoa sourcing regions in west africa,  we will leverage the knowledge we gain to inform our approach and strategy  to achieve deforestation-free cocoa  for the rest of our sourcing regions. since  , general mills has provided  philanthropic support to pur to drive  long-term forest protection and restoration  and improve and diversify cocoa farmer  livelihoods in key general mills cocoa  sourcing regions in west africa. with a  goal of addressing deforestation in these  regions, our pur partnership supports ecosystem restoration by engaging local  communities through the introduction  of diversified agroforestry and tree  nurseries, while simultaneously launching  complementary community-based activities  that support the long-term success of tree  planting initiatives, carbon sequestration,  and ecosystem service-oriented activities through community empowerment and  income diversification and generation. our pur partnership aims to drive  progress in the areas listed below and has  led to positive impacts for ecosystems,  biodiversity and smallholder farmers. holistic approach to regenerating forest ecosystems focus areas progress to date in ghana and cote d’ivoire for more details on pur initiatives in cocoa, please find more information here.community-run   agroforestry  ,  trees plantedincome diversification  through beekeeping  and fish breeding   beehives distributed renovated   fish   breeding structure  with   pondsimproved cooking   stoves  ,  cooking  stoves builtenvironmental  awareness raising  ,  participantsresearch projects   research studies  completed to date;  additional study to  be completed by  september   “i needed trees to  plant in my cocoa  because i have  realized portions  of my cocoa farms  have no trees  remaining and have  started wilting and  dying, especially during the dry season.  the pur trees will provide shade for my  cocoa farm, will also get timber, firewood,  charcoal, and pur will give me incentive.”  — grace akyirem general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people fiber packaging: general mills primarily  sources our fiber packaging from  recycled material or from virgin wood  fiber regions where there is demonstrably  low risk of any deforestation. in  ,  nearly all of our fiber packaging supply  is considered at low risk of contributing  to global deforestation because the  packaging uses either recycled materials  or virgin fiber that is sourced from regions  where deforestation is not occurring,  or is sourced from suppliers that have  forest stewardship council (fsc) mix  certification or better. we continue to engage with our fiber packaging suppliers  to ensure that we continue to advance  our goals for sustainable sourcing. beyond our own sourcing footprint, we  also recognize our ability to contribute  to continuous improvement across the  industry through our engagement in  the consumer goods forum forest  positive coalition and the pulp, paper,  and fiber-based packaging roadmap. looking ahead: based on information  and insights from our recent climate  footprinting work, we are engaging our partner, proforest, to prioritize forest- positive cashews as we continue to  advance our climate commitments. and  we continue to prioritize addressing  land-use change in relevant ingredients  as part of our climate ambition, science- based target, and engagement in  the new sbti flag guidance. we  continue to evolve our strategy and  approach as we learn more about our  climate and deforestation impacts  and how we can work holistically  toward a more forest-positive future. philanthropy to benefit people and planet focus area goal partners farmer  resilience forest  preservation soil   health water  stewardshipimprove the well-being of smallholder  farming communities from which   general mills sources key ingredients.at general mills, we leverage philanthropy to advance regenerative agriculture and support the conservation of natural resources and ecosystems around the world. complementing our  company’s broader global impact commitments, we invest in ngo-led initiatives that increase farmer economic resilience, advance respect for human rights, improve soil and water health,  and increase biodiversity through improved pollinator health and habitat. accelerate the preservation and  rehabilitation of forests in key   sourcing regions. support broad adoption of regenerative  agriculture principles and best practices,  such as no-till farming and the use of  cover crops, to improve soil health. invest in water stewardship funds  and coalitions to protect and  restore at-risk watersheds. general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people as a global food company, our  business is rooted in agriculture.  over time, the quality and availability  of the earth’s natural resources  have declined, while the need to  provide for a growing population  has increased. simply sustaining  the current state of ecosystems  and communities is not enough. we  must instead invest in the potential  of agriculture to ensure a thriving  future for both people and planet.  we believe the most promising solution  to reach our climate goals and create positive planetary outcomes is through  regenerative agriculture, which we define  as a holistic, principles-based approach  to farming and ranching that seeks to  strengthen ecosystems and community  resilience. regenerative agriculture  can help address climate change by  pulling carbon from the atmosphere  and sequestering it in the soil, improving  soil health and driving other benefits,  such as improving nutrient cycling, so  less synthetic fertilizer is needed. these  elements of regenerative agriculture help  to contribute emission reductions toward  our climate goals. this is important because today, the food system accounts  for one-third of all ghg emissions,  with around  % from agriculture and  conversion of natural lands to farmland.  we use an outcomes-based approach,  as opposed to one based on practices,  believing that regenerative systems  are unique to each farm context  and seek to deliver measurable  improvements in soil health and carbon  sequestration, biodiversity, water quality  and quantity, and farmer economic  resilience (see graphic below).  regenerative agriculture soil health  soil is a complex living ecosystem  that is critical for producing food, supporting biodiversity  and regulating the climate. the regenerative principles  are designed to protect and feed this ecosystem to help  it thrive.water management    regenerative agriculture helps maximize   water infiltration and use efficiency and can   reduce agriculture’s impact on water quality,   helping to protect and restore clean water in   nearby streams, rivers and lakes.biodiversity  regenerative principles  support wildlife and beneficial organisms,  which in turn provide important services for  farmers like keeping pests in check.cow and herd well-being  (in dairy operations )   adaptive grazing and feeding cows a   diverse mix of crops support cow health   and increase resiliency across the   whole dairy ecosystem.six core principles of  regenerative agriculture understand   context of farm  operation minimize    disturbance maximize    diversity keep the   soil covered maintain living  roots year-round integrate   livestockfarmer livelihoods   and community resilience   regenerative agriculture systems repair and   enhance ecosystem processes like nutrient cycling,  water infiltration and pest suppression, reducing the  need for more expensive inputs and strengthening  whole-farm profitability and resilience over time.regenerative agriculture outcomesin   general mils commissioned a soil return  on investment study with ecotone analytics, which  showed that regenerative agriculture has the promise  to deliver a significant social return on investment.  the study found that for every us$  contributed  toward regenerative agriculture, approximately   us$  in additional social, environmental and   economic value is generated for farmers,   taxpayers, community members and society   broadly (including more than us$    directly for the farmers), compared to   conventional practices. learn more. return on investment general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people our goal   our goal is to advance regenerative  agriculture on   million acres of farmland  by  . one million acres represents  around   percent of general mills total  estimated land print exposure (or the  amount of land needed to grow the  volumes of the crops we buy or feed to  animals for our ingredients) for producing  key ingredients like grains and dairy.* our progress: through fiscal  ,  we have engaged  ,  acres  in programs designed to advance  regenerative management. our approach  general mills was one of the first  companies that committed to accelerate  this farmer-led movement. two key  objectives of our program are:  n   accelerating adoption of  regenerative agriculture principles  by partnering with farmers within  and outside of our supply chain.n   advancing environmental and  economic outcome science  and technology to demonstrate  how outcomes improve as  farmers implement regenerative  agriculture systems. our focus is on accelerating momentum  in key regions or “supply sheds” rather  than regenerating only our specific  supply chain purchase. we believe  benefits will accrue to our business over  time if we drive impact at a landscape  level. this supply shed approach also  supports broader systems change, so that not only general mills, but  the entire industry, can benefit. we believe regenerative agriculture  programs are most successful when  the approach is holistic and adaptive  rather than prescriptive. this allows our  technical assistance partners to work  with farmers wherever they are on  their regenerative agriculture journey.  for some, this means taking the first  step, whereas others may need help  determining how to layer multiple  techniques as part of a system or expand  proven approaches to additional acres. at general mills, we primarily take a supply shed approach to our regenerative agriculture efforts.  considering the broader system ensures that we’re standing for people and planet, not just   for our company. n   individual company supply chains (suppliers,  grain companies, farmers) often change. n   supply shed investing goes beyond  the supply chain, with a focus on  the broader growing region. n   supply sheds are shared with other  agricultural stakeholders and can  invite co-investment from others.n   supply sheds bring focus to all  growers in that region, enabling a more  inclusive and holistic approach. n   regional supply shed investment can  better align to regional conservation  priorities where regenerative agriculture  must be nested with other strategies to  achieve landscape-level outcomes.supply shed approachfiscal   progressour commitment acres engaged through   programs designed to advance  regenerative management.advance regenerative agriculture  on   million acres of farmland   by  .  ,  million *global sourcing footprint excludes acres associated with rotational crops; percentage may be updated in future reports due to changes in our business, improvements in data collection/accuracy or updates to calculation methodology. our beliefs we draw inspiration from indigenous land stewardship, the organic community, agroecology,  and leading farmers and ranchers in our continuous journey to learn and evolve our  regenerative perspective.  regenerative agriculture is good for farms, ecosystems, communities and businesses. regenerative agriculture is a: n   farmer-led movement n   mindset, or a way of seeing and thinking n   spectrum, covering conventional  and organic farming  n   journey, not a destinationregenerative agriculture: n   quantifies outcomes n   is not a standard checklist of practices n   adapts universal principles to local context n   delivers landscape-level impact n   considers and addresses  systems-level issues that lead to  degeneration and inequitiesat general mills, we believe we can  have a positive impact on biodiversity  through our work in regenerative  agriculture. improving biodiversity is a  targeted outcome of our approach, with  regenerative agriculture principles focused  on improvements to the whole ecosystem,  including animals, invertebrates, plants and  microorganisms. we support grassland protection and regeneration across our  major grain sourcing regions in the u.s.  through our partnership with the national  fish and wildlife foundation (nfwf)  and also address tropical biodiversity  through forest-positive strategies that  support habitats and drive other targeted  regenerative agriculture outcomes. learn  more in our deforestation section.addressing biodiversity general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people accelerating  farmer adoption  using our scale to maximize our impact,  we are working with farmers to advance  regenerative agriculture in key regions  (see map) where we source our most  greenhouse gas intensive ingredients,  such as wheat, oats and dairy.  pilot programs to advance adoption of regenerative  agriculture, we have partnered with soil  health academy and understanding ag  to activate pilots in priority ingredient  sourcing regions. our first pilots, which  we began in  , set out to test  whether deep training,  :  coaching,  peer-to-peer learning networks and  research of regenerative impacts  would be an effective way to advance  implementation of regenerative systems. we learned quickly that when farmers  see their land as a living ecosystem,  they can begin to identify and address  the root causes and not just the  symptoms of an unhealthy ecosystem. preliminary feedback from farmers  suggests our pilot investments have been  effective in driving change, and we’re  now exploring how layering financial  assistance mechanisms can further  accelerate momentum. as we evolve  and expand our programs, we look  forward to sharing additional insights  and a broader suite of environmental and  economic impacts in the coming year.  expanding impact through partnerships we believe one of the biggest  barriers to widespread regenerative  agriculture adoption is the shortage of  experienced conservation professionals to help farmers implement regenerative  agricultural systems. that’s why we are  collaborating with leading conservation  organizations within key supply  sheds that — in coordination with the  advisors providing farmer support  in our pilots — help to drive further  progress in advancing regenerative  agriculture systems. these include: n   partnership with the national fish  and wildlife foundation (nfwf)  in the great lakes basin and the  northern and southern great  plains to hire field conservation  professionals who support farmers  in areas that are important for  fish and wildlife. learn more. n   soil health programs with the wilkin  county, walsh county, and kittson  county soil & water conservation districts in the northern plains, and  with the kansas soil health alliance  and the oklahoma conservation  commission in the southern plains. n   partnership with alus canada’s  growing roots regenerative  agriculture community hubs in  the prairie provinces of manitoba  and saskatchewan. learn more. n   partnerships with key dairy co- ops, understanding ag and logiag  to advance regenerative dairy. what have we learned? understanding of ecosystem function and how  to apply the regenerative principles is critical to  success, but education and qualified agronomic  support is lacking. financial incentives in the absence of  understanding are ineffective. producers learn best from their peers, and a  supportive social network is critical for staying   on the regenerative path. structural barriers inhibit broad participation. local partners who understand context and can  facilitate engagement are the most effective. majority of industry programming is only engaging  the leading segment of producers. typical research approaches based on highly  controlled small-plot research is not sufficient   for understanding real-world farmer outcomes. segregated supply chain/product activations   are costly and complicated. we need to better integrate farmer and community  outcomes as our initial conceptualization of  regenerative agriculture has overemphasized  ecological outcomes.northern plains grains, oilseeds southern plains grains, oilseedscentral valley  california almondsgreat lakes dairy, grains, oilseeds brazil grainsfrance dairypilot programs and key ingredients general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people market opportunities while we believe that regenerative  systems are inherently more profitable  and resilient, especially in the long  run, we acknowledge general mills  and others can help farmers reduce  risk and incentivize the transition to  regenerative systems. we believe that  ecosystem services markets are a great  vehicle to differentially compensate  farmers who grow nutritious food  while also delivering services for local  communities and society as a whole.  general mills is a founding circle  member of the nonprofit ecosystem  services market consortium (esmc)  and is working to advance market-based  incentive mechanisms for farmers who  reduce their environmental impacts. in  , we launched a pilot with  esmc and the kansas department  of health & environment (kdhe) to  test esmc’s protocols and processes  to measure environmental impacts and pay farmers for soil carbon  sequestration, reduced greenhouse  gases and improved water quality. the  pilot is a leading example of public and  private sectors coming together to  quantify environmental improvements  and compensate farmers for the  environmental benefits they produce  through regenerative agriculture.  we also are working to expand  application of esmc to key supply sheds  in western canada for key grain-using  brands like cheerios, nature valley  and cascadian farm. we partnered  with esmc and market developer  native to launch a pilot program with  farmers in manitoba and saskatchewan,  many of whom have participated in  the northern plains pilot program  since  . while we still have much  to learn, we were pleasantly surprised  by the interest and final enrollment  from farmers, more than tripling our  engagement and acreage target. we’re excited to expand our partnership  with esmc and their voluntary market  program, eco-harvest, to expand  into other priority regions in the u.s.  and canada where we source key  ingredients. general mills and esmc  conducted an rfp and identified  market program implementing  partners in the u.s. northern and  southern plains supply sheds, and we  are targeting roughly  ,  acres  of enrollment for crop year  . eco-harvest   market program general mills and esmc recently announced  a multiyear roadmap to scale eco-harvest,  esmc’s voluntary market program that  generates and sells credits for increased  soil carbon, reduced greenhouse gases  and improved water quality. these credits  represent verified environmental benefits  created within agricultural value chains  resulting from approved farm practices. as  a nonprofit, esmc gives us confidence that  the greatest possible value will go to the  farmers. no other market program offers the  same scientific rigor and outcomes-based  protocols that esmc delivers, ensuring the  credibility of soil carbon removals or reduced  greenhouse gas emissions for reporting.  futhermore, esmc’s unique delivery of impact  units will enable multiple supply chain actors  to co-invest in programs and farmer payments,  and co-claim the environmental impact in  scope-  reporting. learn more about esmc. as the largest natural and organic food  producer in the us, general mills has been  a longtime supporter of organic farming  and remains committed to advancing our  work in this area. organic and regenerative  farming share many underlying principles,  like focusing on soil health and biodiversity,  and working with nature rather than  against it. we’re partnering with external  organizations and organic farmers within  our supply chain to advance organic  agriculture with regenerative techniques. we  believe that with organic and regenerative  management, farms can be part of the solution to environmental degradation by  mitigating agriculture’s negative impacts  while also increasing farmers’ resilience  as they face a changing climate.regenerative and organic agriculture v in september  , general mills  donated the cascadian farm home  farm in skagit valley, washington,  to our partner, the rodale institute,  a pioneer in organic agriculture  and research. while general mills  will continue to own and market  the cascadian farm brand, the  donation of the home farm to rodale  institute will help advance the  regenerative organic movement. v we know that our consumers  care about where and how  the ingredients in their  food are grown. we work  to advance regenerative  agriculture by developing  products with ingredients  using regenerative principles,  such as our annie’s mac n  cheese, with crops grown  using extended crop rotations and  integrated crop-livestock management.  general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people advancing measurement  and technology measuring regenerative agriculture  outcomes today is a significant  undertaking, requiring time, manual field  sampling, and expensive data analysis. to  address this challenge, we have provided  thought-leadership and investment  in research to enable better impact  quantification scientific protocols and  complimentary technology platforms.  we are leading the industry in developing  robust scientific methodologies to  monitor and study the outcomes  associated with regenerative agriculture in  order to ensure credibility of our efforts. in partnership with numerous scientific  organizations, we are conducting in-depth  research on the impacts of regenerative  management on soil health and carbon  sequestration, water quality and  conservation, insect and bird biodiversity,  and farm economics. in addition to this  farm-level research, we are implementing technologies that will allow us to quantify  environmental impacts across entire  regions where we source key ingredients. using satellite imagery, we have begun  to track changes in agriculture practices  such as cover crops and reduced/no-till,  as well as regenerative principles like  length of time with a living root in the soil,  on the landscape over time and model  the resulting impacts on metrics like  greenhouse gas emissions. we are also  developing more scalable approaches  to monitoring biodiversity across farms,  utilizing microphones for recording  birds and light sensors to detect insects,  and are investing in research to enable  further build out of impact metrics  related to dairy, water and resiliency. looking ahead we are excited about our expanded  partnerships with esmc, nfwf and  regrow agriculture to advance adoption  and understanding of regenerative  agriculture principles and the related positive outcomes for people and  planet. we continue to evolve our  program and methodologies with new  learnings, science and technology  and look forward to sharing our  insights with the broader industry. we also plan to bring continued leadership  in support of collective frameworks to  drive greater impact and overall systems  transformation.  no one organization  can deliver scaled impact; so, consistent  with our approaches with alus and  nfwf, we will shift more of agriculture  investment to programmatic approaches  that nest within landscape conservation  priorities and facilitate co-investment  from multiple organizations.  with this in  mind, we’ve been exploring partnerships  with suppliers, peers and customers  and hope to solidify more collaborative  approaches and models in the near future.   lastly, we plan to expand programming in  key supply sheds, launch programs in new  supply sheds, and continue advancing measurement science and technology  to enable ecosystem services markets  and more robust impact tracking.  general mills and regrow agriculture are  partnering to monitor and track regenerative  agriculture and its outcomes at scale,  benefiting general mills as well as the broader  industry. the regrow project spans   million  acres of farmland in north america, europe,  and south america. this acreage represents  our estimated supply sheds – the regions where  we source key ingredients like wheat, oat, and  dairy (within the total acreage being monitored,  we source from roughly   million acres of  farmland each year). as part of this partnership,   general mills will leverage regrow’s  software platform, sustainability insights,  and its technology and data capabilities:  n   operational tillage information system  (optis) is a remote sensing technology that  uses satellite imagery to monitor and verify regenerative agriculture techniques, such as  tillage reduction and cover-crop adoption.  n   denitrification-decomposition  (dndc) models microbial processes  in the soil to estimate changes in net  greenhouse gas emissions, delivering  a more accurate emissions baseline.  regrow’s dynamic monitoring and modeled  outputs will integrate with general mills’ existing  regenerative agriculture and climate tracking  systems. the collaboration with regrow will  enable us to update key ingredient emission  factors and deliver a more accurate emissions  baseline. emission factors will be updated  annually and will incorporate estimated  changes in soil carbon due to changes in  farm management techniques and land use. measuring regenerative agriculture outcomesdesign principles as we look ahead, we will continue to   incorporate these principles as we design   our programs: include all types of producers and meet them   where they are drive larger impact by nesting projects within  landscape-level initiatives coalesce behind principles, processes and outcomes  invite input and encourage local ownership enable holistic surround of producer support with  technical, financial and social elements promote systems-level research to ensure  scientifically-robust insights and narrative prioritize collective action to build capacity, reward  farmers and drive policy priorities v example from regrow’s  sustainability insights  dashboard providing  adoption trends in key  practices and regenerative  agriculture principles  across priority supply  sheds, as well as providing  modelled estimates of  relevant outcomes such as  crop-specific emissions. food       planet       people general mills global responsibility     water is essential for all life on earth —   for drinking and sanitation and to  grow food, generate power, support  commerce and nurture ecosystems. on  average, agriculture accounts for  % of  global freshwater withdrawals,* and the  food sector faces increasing risks related  to water quality and availability due to  the impact of climate change on global  and local water cycles and increasing  human demands. this underscores  the leadership role general mills and  other food companies must take to  address water stewardship issues. at general mills, we focus on water use  from watershed to production; identify  opportunities to increase efficiency, conservation, and regeneration (or  recharge); and continually work to  improve performance and enhance  resilience. our vision is a healthy water  cycle with clean, abundant water  accessible to watershed stakeholders  and ecosystems. the general mills water  policy provides a framework for improving  the health of watersheds that are critical  to our business, and we are signatories to  the united nations ceo water mandate. our goal in  , general mills developed specific  goals to reduce our water usage rate in  our owned manufacturing facilities. as we  started to look at water more holistically,  understanding that the majority of our water impact is upstream of our direct  operations. we subsequently committed  to advancing water stewardship plans for  the most material and at-risk watersheds  in our global value chain. over the past  few years, through research and farmer  pilots, we have also been exploring  regenerative agriculture as a means to  improve water quality and quantity. through this evolution of our journey,  we have learned a lot about water  impacts and water risks, what has  worked well and where our approach  may have been limited. on the positive  side, our approach has been holistic and  collaborative, acknowledging the need  for all stakeholders to work together.  on the other hand, given the sheer size  of watersheds, we have had challenges  in influencing and enforcing water  stewardship plans. moreover, we learned that having a plan doesn’t necessarily  guarantee a healthy watershed or that our  company’s water risk will be mitigated.  in fiscal  , we updated our water  commitment to reflect that, as a  food company, general mills will  always depend on clean, abundant  water to grow our ingredients  and manufacture our products: to  champion the regeneration of water  resources in priority watersheds. water stewardship *source: https:/ /www.oecd.org/water/water-use-in-agriculture.htmto champion the  regeneration of water  resources in priority  watersheds.our goal farms that grow our ingredients depend on water as a food company, general mills depends on waterlivestock need  clean water to  drink and water to  grow their feed.plants require  adequate rainfall or  irrigation from ground  water or surface  water to grow.pollinators, birds  and other local  wildlife depend on  access to water and  healthy plants.water makes it  possible for soil  microbes to cycle  nutrients and consume  soil organic matter,  key to healthy soil.farmers rely on   water to run their  businesses  — and  as living beings!farm communities  need water for  drinking, sanitation,  recreation and more. for ingredients —  % n   growing ingredients from both   crops and livestock n   ingredient transformationfor packaging —  % n   growing (fiber) and extracting   (metal, plastic) packaging feedstocks n   feedstock transformation n   packaging manufacturefor manufacturing —  % n   plant sanitation n   as an ingredient n   employee well-beingecosystems rely on a healthy  global and local water cycle all living creatures require water to survive. the water cycle moves water  throughout the planet, providing water storage, cleaning, and distribution.  the water cycle sustains life and creates the ecosystems around us. vapor transport precipitation evaporation groundwater oceanrunoffwater   cyclecondensation general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people every three years, we refresh our  watershed prioritization and under  our new strategy will now set a  -year  action plan with context-based goals in  each watershed. we will still retain the  principle of working in coalition and at the  watershed level, since collective action is  critical for success. refreshing our priority  watersheds will take place in fiscal  . general mills is more committed to  water than ever, and we are working to  develop a vision for how best we can  use our influence for positive water  impacts and outcomes. we intend to  share more about this direction with  our stakeholders in the coming year. our actions water stewardship is an integral part  of our effort to continually reduce the  environmental impact of our operations,  including the impact that occurs upstream  of our own facilities. we work in numerous  ways to mitigate and adapt to water risk: fund and participate in local water  stewardship activities and policy  advocacy with ngo partners: for  example, in the great lakes region, we are collaborating with the national fish  and wildlife foundation (nfwf) on  the sustain our great lakes program,  a public–private partnership designed  to sustain, restore and protect fish,  wildlife and habitat in the basin by  leveraging funding, building conservation  capacity, and focusing partners and  resources toward key ecological  issues. as one of six funding areas,  regenerative agriculture, especially in  dairy, is advancing our shared vision of  a healthy great lakes watershed, and  this partnership is an important way  we can contribute to positive impact  on water, soil health and farmers in the  region. in  , this program funded  five regenerative agriculture technical  assistance and implementation projects  in the lake michigan watershed.     maximize water efficiency in owned  plants in priority watersheds: we  regularly measure and monitor water  use in our manufacturing facilities  in order to proactively manage our  water footprint. rather than having an  enterprise-wide goal, our plants employ  a site-specific continuous improvement and holistic evaluation approach to  water conservation opportunities.  for example, to help support a  healthy watershed, our albuquerque  manufacturing facility is certified by  the alliance for water stewardship, our  first plant to do so, and has a context- based plan in place. parts of the plan  address internal water use (like having  a rain capture system for watering  their outdoor space) and collaborating  with the nature conservancy to  support indigenous-led projects on  regenerative reforestation and drinking  water access for the local community.  advance regenerative agriculture:   for example, almonds are a featured  ingredient in many of general mills’  products, such as cereal and granola  bars. california is facing extreme  water stress, which is leading to  ground and surface water depletion  as well as negative impacts to  agricultural quality. and almonds, with  their high water dependency, have  the biggest water footprint of any  california crop. preliminary research  suggests that growing almonds with regenerative agriculture principles  results in powerful soil health and  water benefits, including significantly  higher water infiltration rates as well  as potential reductions in irrigation. general mills is taking a multipronged  approach to advance understanding  and adoption of regenerative  agricultural practices for almonds: n   supporting sustainable water  regulation implementation and  agricultural water efficiency. water risk is one of the key ways that  climate change impacts general mills,  in both the sourcing of ingredients  as well as in our manufacturing  operations. this has become even  more clear in recent years, with  acute events that have had a  very real impact on our business.  we have seen that watershed  context can determine how water  risk manifests. for example:water, soil health and climate  are connected in a virtuous cycle  and can be improved by the  same regenerative agriculture  principles. for example, water is  necessary for growing plants and  healthy microbes, which is how  healthy soil sequesters carbon.  and healthy soil makes farms  more resilient to water stress  such as drought and flood.too much water: the    flood and freeze  in the red river valley  caused a significant sugar  beet crop failure.too little water: the    severe drought across the  u.s. and canada complicated  oat sourcing for many  of our key products.climate, water and regenerative agriculturein  , we joined the science- based target for freshwater pilot  to continue gaining insights into  how to advance our commitment to  regenerate water resources in the  watersheds we depend on. this pilot  affirmed our focus on agriculture and  ingredients as the primary area where  we can drive positive impact in water.  it also reinforced that regenerative  agriculture is an important lever  to advance positive outcomes in  some of our biggest supply sheds.  participating in the pilot also revealed  many challenges, for example, with  accessing stakeholders in a timely  fashion and calculating water impact  in a data-poor environment. however,  we learned about exciting new  tools, such as satellite mapping of  groundwater, that supported us in  the illustrative target setting process. we are using sbtn’s assess and  prioritize steps, in collaboration  with the world wildlife fund  (wwf), to inform our watershed  prioritization refresh as we  found the tools to be strong.science-based  target pilot general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people yongding he  hebei/s anhe (beijing), china facility risk level: extremel y high  status: under evaluation  yangtz e (chang jiang) shanghai, china facilities risk level: high status: under evaluation  ganges madhya  pradesh, india growing region (wheat) risk level:  extremel y high  status: a ctive project – scienc e-based  target pilotsan joaquin california, u .s. growing region ( dairy , nuts,   fruits and v egetables ), facility risk level: extremel y high  status: a ctive projects – gr oundw ater sustainability  implementation and r egener ative almonds;  scienc e-based tar get pilot rio gr ande/rio br avo new mexic o, u.s. facility risk level: extremel y high  status: a ctive project – regener ative forestry growing region (wheat, potatoes ) risk level: extremel y high status: observ ation risk le vels ar e based on a c ombination of the wri aqueduct wa ter risk a tlas and the wwf water risk filt er, customiz ed to  gener al mills. we  refresh our wa ter risk assessment every thr ee years, and we  complet ed that pr ocess in fiscal  . some of   the priority wa tersheds not ed in this map ha ve changed. f or ex ample, to bring visibility to  the positiv e wa ter of r egener ative agricultu re, we have added priority wa tersheds in the unit ed stat es, canada and br azil.rio lerma basin el bají o, mexic o growing region (strawberries ), facility risk level: high status: a ctive project – regener ative strawberriessnak e idaho , u.s.growing region ( sugar beets ) risk level: medium status: a ctive project – regener ative sugar red riv er basin north dakota & minneso ta, u.s. growing region (oats) risk level: medium status: a ctive project – regener ative oatsassiniboine/ seine rat basins north dakota, u.s. & sa skatchew an  & manit oba, canad a south florida basins florid a, u.s. growing region ( sugarcane ) risk level: high status: observ ation growing region ( dairy), f acility risk level:  high status: regener ative dairyescaut/parisian basin arra s, france growing region (ric e) risk level: high  status: a ctive project – w etland  conserv ation in ric elandsbayou met o/gulf coas t eastern ark ansas, u.s.growing region ( dairy) risk level: medium status: a ctive project – regener ative dairylake michigan/lak e hur on wisc onsin & michigan, u .s. chene y lak e kansas, u.s. growing region (wheat) risk level: medium status: a ctive project – regener ative whea t advancing water stewardship: general mills initiatives every three years, we assess business risk and water impact for the company to prioritize watersheds in which to focus our efforts. this  ensures that our  prioritization reflects changes  in sourcing locations, product mix, external context, and improvements in risk assessment tools, and gives us a time-bound period in which to advance progress against context-based  goals. now, we are also beginning to work on capturing positive impact on water from our regenerative agriculture projects. in all our priority locations, we strive to work in coalitions  that advance our positive water impact beyond the scale of general mills’ individual water footprint and invest in healthy watersheds for all stakeholders, including ecosystems. n   funding research focused on  regenerative agriculture and water  in california, with a specific focus  on outcomes measurement and  modeling for almonds grown  using regenerative principles. n   leading a working group with the  california water action collaborative  to scope a regenerative agriculture  pilot that aims to improve water  resilience in the san joaquin valley.drive industry advancement: we work  to move the industry forward in the  understanding and advancement of  water stewardship through supporting  innovation to bring about practical  tools for farmers, participating in  ngos and industry roundtables, and  leading in external collaborations  like the california water action  collaborative and the science based  target network’s freshwater pilot. v general mills’ brand  lärabar is funding  research with the  ecdysis foundation to  determine how on-farm  practices are linked to  regenerative outcomes.conventional almonds regenerative almonds general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people our approach  packaging plays a critical role in  preserving the safety, nutrition  and quality of the food we make. it  presents challenges both in terms of  raw materials used in production as  well as the waste generated when  improper disposal occurs, and it is a top  sustainability issue with consumers. general mills works to reduce the  environmental impact of packaging by  increasing use of recycled and recyclable  materials, developing innovative  packaging solutions and leading  through external collaboration. we are  focused on protecting the attributes  and safety of our products while giving  consumers a positive experience with  our packaging, from shelf to disposal. our ambition ambition: our packaging ambition  is that all general mills brands will  design  % of packaging to be  recyclable or reusable by  . progress: through fiscal  ,  %  of the packaging for our north  america retail and north america  foodservice operating segments was  recyclable or reusable (by weight). we have invested in new data and  technology capabilities in order  to report more accurate progress  numbers. we intend to report global  numbers in subsequent reporting  as we expand these capabilities.  see more detail on our data and  technology strategy to the right.our strategies  it is critical that we meet this ambition  through strategies that best fit our  product portfolio while maintaining  the safety, nutrition and quality of our  products. given the many different  types of packaging in our products,  innovation in this space requires  significant time, investment and  collaboration. we take a multipronged  approach to packaging, including: n   reduce, reuse and recycle: we  consistently seek opportunities  to improve the recyclability and  reusability of our packaging, and  reduce or eliminate materials. for  example, we have worked for many  years to reduce primary and secondary  film through lightweighting and  removal. to continue to drive progress,  our business teams are encouraged  to design new product packaging to  be recyclable whenever possible, and  we aim to reduce our overall use of  plastic packaging (see our approach  to plastic packaging below).   n   innovation: we’re continuing to  innovate our packaging and to roll out  these innovations at a pace and scale that enables us to maintain the safety  and quality of our products (see p.  ). n   education: we’ve invested in  education around recyclability,  including providing how recycle  labels on more than two-thirds of  our products across our entire u.s.  portfolio, launching a national ad  campaign to educate consumers  about recyclability of our nature valley  wrapper, and including recyclability  information on our annie’s cereal box. n   infrastructure: we’re working  to  improve recycling infrastructure, for  both product packaging and tertiary  wrap, by investing in a state-of-the- art flexible film recycling plant to be  developed by myplas in our home  state of minnesota, slated to open  in  . see story on next page. n   external collaboration: we are  collaborating to drive industry-wide  advancements in packaging. for  example, we are participating with  the recycling partnership’s film  and flexibles coalition to broaden  the awareness and practice of film  recycling, and we’re working with  our retailers to broaden their in-store recycling efforts. we participate  in the sustainable packaging  coalition (spc) to collaborate across  the industry and ensure we are  collectively improving the system.packaginggeneral mills packaging materials* *f  percentage of finished product packaging material by weight for our north america retail and  foodservice operating segments; includes product and transportation packaging. %plastic  %fiber  %aluminum  %composite cans  %glass  %steelfiscal   progress * understanding the importance of accurate,  reliable and timely information, general mills has  invested in a cross-functional effort to improve  and strengthen our packaging data. through  enhanced systems, reporting dashboards, and  granular regional- and business-level data, these  new capabilities will help our teams better  understand the impacts of packaging decisions  and identify opportunities for improvement.  as a result of these efforts, we are now able to  report more accurate packaging progress data  for our north america retail and foodservice  businesses for fiscal  , as reflected in the  numbers above. we expect these numbers to  change in future years as we work to expand  these capabilities to our pet and international  segments, as well as our external supply chain  locations. we intend to include a global number  in subsequent reporting. over the next few  years, we also expect to enhance our packaging  data by building attributes to better track  recycled content and packaging reductions.data and technology*progress for north america retail and north america  foodservice operating segments (approximately  %  of total packaging spend in fiscal  ). see below for  details on our data reporting.of packaging   was recyclable or   reusable (by weight).  % general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people looking ahead  achieving our packaging ambition  requires both integration and ownership  across the company. that’s why each  business segment — north american  retail, north america foodservice, pet  and international — now have dedicated  teams and assigned resources to achieve  this commitment. with the exception of  international, they each have established  a glide path for remaining packaging  conversions necessary for us to reach  % recyclable/reusable by   and  will be focused on executing these plans  over the next few years. the glidepath  for our international segment will be  developed by the end of fiscal  . we are also expanding our  experimentation in fiscal   with  ongoing reusable packaging pilots,  research into plastic alternatives, and  multiple applications for pcr in which  we plan to leverage myplas for both food  grade and potential non-food grade film. in addition, with the increased focus on  packaging as it relates to greenhouse  gas emissions, we are applying more  focus on understanding the carbon  footprint of different sustainable packaging solutions, tying that into  our strategy and investing in data  technology that will enable us to more  accurately track, aggregate and report  on packaging over the coming years. general mills is part of a groundbreaking  partnership through minnesota’s mbold  coalition to create a new solution   for flexible films and packaging materials  in the upper midwest. working with  myplas usa, inc. and charter next  generation, this new initiative will   expand film recycling infrastructure and  the supply of recycled resin for use in  new products, reducing greenhouse gas  emissions and waste. with investment  from mbold members and other  stakeholders, myplas usa will  establish a state-of-the-art flexible  film recycling plant in minnesota,  its first in the u.s. slated to begin  operations in summer  , this new   , -square-foot mechanical  recycling plant aims to recycle nearly    million pounds of low- and high- density polyethylene packaging and  film annually at full capacity. investment  partner charter next generation will  purchase recycled resin from myplas for  use in food, industrial and healthcare  film products, and companies including general mills will also evaluate product  applications using these materials. the myplas project, recently featured  as the cover story in packaging world  magazine, is helping the industry take  major steps toward a true circular  economy for flexible packaging and films.innovation through collaboration w general mills is focused on innovation in  packaging. for example, recyclable wrappers,  like those on our nature valley granola bars,  can be turned back into food grade packaging  or durable products such as playground  sets, decking, fencing and furniture. % % f  f  f  f  f  f  f glide path initiatives to achieve    % recyclable r our business segments have each developed a glide path to achieve our commitment  by   (international glide path to be developed by the end of  ). it is crucial that our approach to  packaging enables us to maintain the  safety and quality of our products.  currently,  % of our packaging by weight  is plastic. our primary focus has been on  mono-pe and growing partnerships with  film partners and upstream suppliers as  the industry continues to scale capability  and capacity in this area. additionally,  the majority of our plastic is direct food  contact packaging — which does not  currently have a widely available and  safe food-grade post-consumer recycled  plastic (“pcr”) alternative. partnerships  like the myplas facility featured below   as well as our continued efforts to  grow our recyclable material portfolio  are critical to increasing the demand for recycled plastics. we are also  working to reduce use of plastic  packaging overall through strategies  that make sense in this context such as  lightweighting, which brings both cost  savings and sustainability benefits. our approach to plastic packaging r general mills has transitioned away  from plastic spoons in our haagen dazs  ice cream minicups, with single serve  packs converting to a wooden spoon and  multipacks removing the spoon entirely.  general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people how general mills is advancing our packaging ambition challengesat general mills, we know we still have a lot of work to do to reach our ambition of designing our packaging to be  % recyclable or reusable. we also know how important it is to celebrate progress  along the way. below are just a few successes of our sustainable way of approaching packaging.  just like celebrating success is important, being aware of challenges is also key. the road to sustainable packaging will not always be easy and straightforward. but by understanding what  challenges and roadblocks exist, we can work to develop new strategies and utilize our strong partnerships to accelerate progress.fruit by the foot: in august  ,   we kicked off a reduction in  plastic packaging for our fruit  snacks portfolio. we are on track  to eliminate  ,  kg of plastic  this year and expect further  reductions in the next few years. building supply: as we shift  into new sustainable solutions  for our portfolio, we are often  constrained by limited supply.  this gets exacerbated when  layering on the requirement of  food-grade material, especially  as it relates to recycled  content. our collaboration  with mbold is one way we are  working to unlock supply. blue buffalo treats: in december  ,  we introduced a reusable stainless  steel container for blue buffalo bits  dog treats as part of a pilot with  loop at giant and walmart inhome .pet & meals recycled content:   general mills continued its commitment  to being an association of plastic  recyclers demand champion, and  we were able to increase our usage  of post-consumer recycled plastic in  both our pet & meals brands offsetting  almost  ,  lbs of virgin plastic and  contributing to the  .  million lbs  of new demand for recycled content  created as part of the program.annie’s compostable cups: in  june   we launched paper  microwavable annie’s mac & cheese  cups, general mills’ first bpi certified   industrially compostable package.foodservice croissants: in an effort  to reduce excess packaging  waste as well as our polystyrene  footprint, in may  , we  removed the packing trays for our  frozen croissants and now pack them loose in the case  with no negative impact to product quality. as a result  we eliminated  ,  kg of polystyrene annually.liberté yogurt: in july  , our yogurt  brand liberté officially moved from  black to transparent lids in order to  make the lids recyclable. this is a step  on our journey to make liberte  %  recyclable. the removal of black pigment  also created savings for the company.  new approaches to innovation: we have learned that  strong partnerships with current and new suppliers  across the full supply chain has been key to unlocking  unique solutions such as the nature valley store   drop-off film. these new connections and breadth   of relationships require us to get involved early   in the innovation and plan further out than we   typically do. this may result in slower flow ins   and conservative   labeling to allow   for supply resiliency. food safety and quality: in order to make food the  world loves, we must first and foremost make sure our  food is safe. packaging is a key component of food  safety and quality. any recyclable or reusable solution  must continue to meet our high standards for quality  and safety. plastic solutions continue   to provide the best means to  ensure our food safety is never  compromised. learn more in our   food safety section.  general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people our approach at general mills, our supply chain is at  the heart of our company’s belief in  standing for people and planet. our    owned plants around the world  represent different opportunities for  us to have a positive impact on the  environment, people and communities  where those facilities are located. our  operations teams work continuously  to drive sustainability and are focused  on supporting general mills’ global  commitments, specifically around  climate, waste and renewable electricity. this work is guided by our company’s  safety and environmental protection  policy, which ensures our facilities  understand expectations around  responsible environmental practices   and underscores our commitment   to a culture of continuous learning   and improvement. our progress * greenhouse gas emissions from our  operations decreased by more than   % in   compared to the prior  year, primarily due to our ongoing  progress in energy efficiency and focus  on renewable electricity. for additional data on greenhouse gas emissions,  energy, water and waste in our  operations, see the key manufacturing  metrics table in the appendix. energy use: we identify and implement  improvements in energy usage through  our five-step energy reduction process  (see graphic below) by working with our  manufacturing plants to establish energy  programs, conduct energy analyses,  develop and execute improvement  plans, and validate results. this process  historically focused on facilities with  significant spending on energy. we  have recently evolved it to include all  general mills manufacturing facilities,  by focusing improvement efforts on  common systems such as compressed  air, lighting and steam/hot water. during fiscal  , energy usage at our  production facilities decreased by  %  compared to the prior year, as efficiency  improvements offset higher production of  energy-intensive products. we completed    energy efficiency and reduction  projects across the company. in total,  these projects saved approximately    million kwh of electricity,   thousand  mmbtu of natural gas and avoided  ,   metric tons co₂e of ghg emissions.  for example, through   projects to retrofit led lighting across our north  american facilities, we are saving more  than   million kwh of electricity annually. renewable electricity: during  ,  general mills set a goal to source  %  renewable electricity for our global  operations by  .*** this goal is  aligned to re , a global corporate  initiative which brings together hundreds  of businesses committed to  %  renewable electricity to drive collective  impact. we achieved  % of this target  through fiscal   and continue to  make fast progress on this commitment.  we have implemented numerous  renewable energy initiatives at  facilities worldwide that meet  financial guidelines and support our  environmental objectives, including: n   a recently completed upgrade to the  biogas generator at our yoplait plant in  murfreesboro, tennessee, is generating   % more renewable power from our  on-site wastewater treatment. this is a  great example of our plant engineering  team leveraging green technology to  harvest energy from our waste stream. n   our maverick creek wind energy  partnership in the texas hill country  recently completed its first full year  of operation. the combination of  wind energy offtake from maverick  creek and cactus flats, our earlier  wind-energy investment, now  exceeds the amount of power  that we purchase across all our  u.s. supply chain locations. n   internationally, we currently have  two solar projects underway, one  in san adrian, spain, and the other  in sanhe, china. we have installed  thousands of solar panels at  each location, helping us cut coal  usage, reduce co   emissions, and  generate positive cost savings.  additional data on renewable electricity  can be found in the appendix. waste reduction: one of the ways  we can reduce our impact on the  environment is by eliminating the  waste we send to landfills. to support  that, we’re committed to achieving  zero waste to landfill status on  %  of our owned manufacturing facilities  by  . worldwide, at the end of  fiscal  ,   general mills production  facilities ( % of the global total) met  our zero waste to landfill criteria.**** we  remain diligent in working to achieve  our target and see opportunities  for continued advancement. our commitment to this work starts  at the plant level, and we’ve learned  that having passionate and dedicated  champions at our plant locations helps sustainable operations *metrics reported in this section reflect data for general mills’ wholly owned manufacturing facilities only, unless otherwise specified. **emissions calculated using the market-based method, which considers any contractual instruments that may be used in competitive energy markets, such as green tariffs, renewable certificates, or ppas. ***scope includes all globally owned general mills facilities (manufacturing, r&d, offices, warehouses, hd shops, and cake kitchens). ****these facilities sent no waste to landfill or incineration without energy recovery.five-step energy reduction process step   establish  energy  programstep   conduct  energy  analysisstep   develop  improvement  planstep   execute  improvement  planstep   validate   resultssourced in fiscal  . % renewable electricity general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people ensure broader adoption, progress,  and most importantly, success. for  example, in december  , our flour  mill in vernon, california achieved zero  waste to landfill status. they created  a centrally located recycling center  that makes it easier for employees to  segregate waste streams and allows for trash and cardboard to be compacted.  the benefits go beyond convenience,  and this also reduces the number of  hauls and the associated transportation  and fuel costs, two of the primary  expenses related to zero waste to landfill. food waste: in  , we announced  a goal to reduce food waste in our  operations by  % by   (compared  to our   baseline). in   we   reduced our food waste volume by  %  compared to  . in fiscal  ,  . %  of our total waste was food waste.* we participate in numerous initiatives  to decrease food waste in operations  and beyond, such as the u.s. food  loss and waste   champions  and friends of champions  . . learn  more in the summary below. transportation: understanding the  impact that fuel and transportation has  on our greenhouse gas footprint, we  work with our suppliers, co-packers,  transportation providers and customers to reduce the environmental impact  of shipping our products around the  world. we continuously work to shift  to more efficient transport modes and  implement improvements in truck fuel  efficiency. our strategies include: n   optimizing transportation modes  across intra-company and  customer freight, including moving  loads to modes with less impact,  such as from truck to rail. n   using innovative technologies  such as lightweight truck cabs. n   collaborating with suppliers and cus - tomers to increase capacity utilization  and providing customers incentives  to use our direct plant ship program. n   prioritizing shippers with strong  environmental credentials. in north  america, approximately  % percent  of our transportation spend is with  smartway certified carriers. n   removing miles from the network  by improving logistics planning, regionally sourcing products,  filling trucks more completely and  using load optimization software  to reduce storage and handling. n   optimizing our customer service  facility and inventory footprint to  decrease outside storage, which  requires additional handling. n   working with warehouse  pl to  utilize leds across all our warehouses  and ensure that food waste from  product damage goes to animal  feed vs. landfill whenever possible *https:/ /refed.org/food-waste/the-challenge/#overview*general mills follows the food loss & waste protocol standard when defining “food waste.” numbers do not include waste generated from pet plants, waste going to animal feed or inedible byproducts. a multifaceted approach to rescue food we closely monitor and manage our  production processes to keep surplus food  out of the waste stream. surplus food from  our operations is first offered to food bank  partners to feed hungry people; the   remainder is repurposed for animal feed   or anaerobic digestion. we actively participate in industry, nonprofit  and government groups focused on food  loss and waste reduction as well as surplus  food recovery, including ameripen, the food  waste reduction alliance, the consumer  brands association, refed, mbold, and the  u.s. food waste and loss   champions.general mills is committed to increasing  surplus food recovery, especially among  consumer-facing food businesses —  grocery stores, restaurants and other food  outlets. these organizations collectively  account for  % of all food waste, roughly    billion pounds (more than   million  metric tons) per year in the u.s. alone.*in addition to food donations, general  mills provides philanthropic support to  leading nonprofits that makes it possible  for food manufacturers, grocers, restaurants,  distributors, trucking companies and other  organizations to donate surplus food so it  can be distributed to people in need. learn  more in the alleviating hunger section.as a global food company, general mills believes that food loss and waste are major environmental and economic challenges that undermine food security, contribute to climate change, unnecessarily  consume natural resources like water, and add more costs to families, communities and businesses alike. communities food retailers operations industryproduction waste  *disposal includes landfill  and incineration without  energy recovery.disposal* energy recovery recycling% of production waste %  % %  % %  %       r during  ,  % of our total production  solid waste globally was recycled,  % was  processed for energy recovery and  %   was disposed.* %  %  % %  %  % %  %  % r we work to optimize transportation  modes and implement improvements in  truck fuel efficiency.  general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people our approach at general mills, we are responsible for  maintaining high standards not only in  our own operations, but also across our  value chain. our supplier base is large,  complex and global, with thousands  of suppliers in more than   countries.  through our global responsible sourcing  program, we uphold our supplier code  of conduct and drive ongoing supplier  progress in the areas of health and  safety, human rights, business integrity  and the environment. this increases  our influence to protect and respect  the people who supply, transform and  manufacture the goods and services  we use to make our products. we  were an early adopter of creating a  formal responsible sourcing program  and have continued to strengthen our  program and policies each year.  governance and integration: the  global responsible sourcing program  has a dedicated team of managers  and is part of our global sourcing  operations and capabilities (gsoc) group. gsoc reports to the chief  procurement officer, who leads  global sourcing, with accountability  to our chief supply chain officer.  our program is focused on integrating  key capabilities into sourcing processes  for general mills globally. responsible  sourcing is integrated into our source  to pay process, the workflow utilized  by the global sourcing organization. collaboration: general mills participates  in many forums and partnerships,  both within and outside our industry,  to stay on top of best practices, learn  about new capabilities, and ensure our  responsible sourcing program is strong  and up to date. we are members of  several leading organizations, including: n   sedex: sedex is one of the world’s  leading ethical trade membership  organizations, collaborating with  businesses to improve working  conditions in global supply chains. n   aim-progress: general mills is part  of the aim-progress forum of  leading fast-moving consumer goods  (fmcg) manufacturers and common  suppliers, assembled to enable and  promote responsible sourcing practices  and sustainable supply chains.  audits: we expect all suppliers to uphold  our supplier code of conduct, and we  use responsible sourcing audits to assess  and understand business practices in  our own operations, our co-packers’,  and our suppliers’.* these audits, which  follow the sedex members ethical trade audit (smeta) protocol, are distinct  from food safety audits. the smeta  framework is widely recognized by  companies across many sectors, which  enables suppliers to share audit results  with multiple customers to improve  efficiency and reduce audit burden. accredited third-party auditors perform  these audits and ensure timely creation  of corrective action plans and closure  of identified noncompliances within a  specified time frame. while in prior years  our audit program was divided between  our own operations and our suppliers,  we are now under one comprehensive  integrated program to ensure consistency  in approach and to uphold the highest  standards in all parts of our supply chain.  % of our suppliers in scope are  audited as part of our responsible  sourcing program. we audit about a  third of them each year, and compliant  audits are good for   years. the results  from the audits conducted in fiscal    are shown on the next page.responsible sourcing   human rights        environment       health & safety        business integrityfour pillars  of global  responsible  sourcing *in scope direct tier   suppliers identified as medium or high risk through a third party risk assessment looking at esg and category risks.global responsible sourcing  program: verifying that gmi’s  core values are upheld across   our supply chain general mills supplier   code of conductwe hold ourselves   and suppliers to  defined standards.  smeta  -pillar audit or equivalentwe audit against  those standards.  corrective action planswe work to resolve  any issues.  external reportingwe publicly disclose  our progress.  general mills   owned facilities external supply chain  locations (co-packers) direct suppliers licensing & premiumsscope general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people our progress  we made significant advancements  in our global responsible sourcing  program in fiscal  , including: supplier code of conduct n   we updated our supplier code of  conduct to outline explicit responsible  sourcing expectations for suppliers, so  that they clearly understand all four  pillars of our responsible sourcing  program and the obligations of  acceptance prior to onboarding . n   the updated code includes expanded  protections for human rights with  requirements across nine key areas:  forced labor, child labor, freedom  of association and collective  bargaining, anti-discrimination and  fair treatment, wages and benefits,  work hours and overtime, labor  agencies and recruitment fees,  freedom of movement, and land  rights (see human rights section). n   we revamped our training program  with deeper and more engaging  content, focused on expanded  knowledge of our responsible  sourcing program, outlining  and understanding supplier  expectations, identifying risks  and addressing concerns. n   we now have annual mandatory  supplier code of conduct training  for our entire sourcing organization,  including a knowledge retention  quiz. training is also expanded  to other internal teams, including  our global impact and innovation,  technology & quality teams. additionally, we launched this  training to our external suppliers.integrated program management n   in fiscal  , we expanded our  relationship with integrated program  manager, intertek, to strengthen our  processes and global capabilities  n   we added integrated audit program  managers in global locations — including  in china and portugal — to provide  more direct engagement with suppliers n   we created materials in local  languages (spanish, portuguese  and chinese) to ensure greater  understanding and compliance  with our global supplier base. risk escalation process in   we fully implemented our  new risk escalation and resolution  process (piloted in late fiscal  ) that  incorporates global responsible sourcing  program significant incidents, including  salient issues, and also investigates  human rights concerns outside of audit  data (learn more in our human rights   section) across the supply base. the escalation process ensures  that corrective action plans for noncompliances are resolved in  partnership with our suppliers, with  final sign-off occurring at senior levels,  and when applicable, in conjunction  with our business partners.   looking ahead  building on the enhancements to our  responsible sourcing program over  the last two years, we plan to pilot  expansions of our responsible sourcing  program to indirect and tier  + suppliers  over the next year. we look forward  to communicating more about this  progress in future year reporting.fiscal   audit results sites audited in    countriesaudits with  no findingsaudits with  significant  incidents*      *significant incidents require the supplier to go through  a root cause analysis and submit a corrective action  plan (cap). in addition, a documented review by the  audit company validating that the finding has been  closed properly is required.note: to address findings appropriately,  additional time may be required due to  capital investment or process change.as of october  , more  than   of our employees  and   of our suppliers  have completed training  about the expanded human  rights requirements within  our updated supplier  code of conduct.  + due to the expansion of our program  into local languages, we were able to  drive significant positive change with  one of our brazilian suppliers. after  we completed the first social audit at  their location, over   noncompliance  items were identified. examples  included working hours exceeding  a union agreement, inadequate fire  safety procedures and environmental  impact assessments, and not having an established system to monitor and  manage business ethics standards.  through our enhanced capabilities, our  team worked with the supplier speaking  in the local language to identify and  address root causes and documented  them in a corrective action plan. our  rd  party auditor verified the changes were  implemented, which removed risks and  improved the working environment for  the   employees at this facility. driving change through local engagement accepted cap openprogress of closing  significant incidents closed % %  %total number of findings   by pillar       health   & safetyhuman  rightsenvironment business  ethics general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people our approach although general mills is primarily a  plant-forward food company, with  large businesses such as cheerios and  nature valley, we use some animal-  derived products and have long worked  to support the humane treatment of  animals in agriculture. this helps to  ensure a resilient supply chain and aligns  with our ambition to stand for good. at general mills we do not raise or handle  livestock, but we are committed to pro - tecting animals and work closely with our  suppliers to do so. we regularly engage  with stakeholders focused on animal  health and welfare and leverage industry  initiatives that advance livestock produc - tion. our animal welfare policy outlines  our approach throughout the global sup - ply chain for our food products, including: cows: general mills encourages all  suppliers in our dairy supply chain  to support industry-wide efforts that  promote the humane treatment of  cattle. all of the fluid milk we source in  the u.s. for yoplait comes from co- ops whose member farms operate in  accordance with the standards of the  national milk producers federation  animal care program (farmers assuring  responsible management). the  program comprehensively addresses  dairy cow care, including standards for  proper pain relief and disbudding, and  prohibits the routine use of tail docking.  the farm standards are revised on a  three-year cycle starting with a review  by a technical committee composed of  veterinarians and animal care experts.eggs: eggs are an important ingredient in  ice cream, baked goods and doughs, and  we strive to ensure the hens laying them  are treated humanely. our commitment  is to purchase  % cage-free or free- range eggs for our operations globally  by  . in calendar year  , we  contracted  % of global egg purchases  to be cage-free or free-range. avian flu  impacted our suppliers’ abilities to deliver  contracted volumes of cage-free eggs;  our business mix also impacted egg  volumes. our commitment and future  glide path are unchanged, and our glide  path is supported by individual material  conversion plans and timelines, and some  contracts are already in place for  .   our progress is dependent on our  suppliers’ ability to source cage-free or  free-range eggs; ongoing challenges  in supply and  availability could  impact these  numbers. chickens: general mills will work to  transition  % of the broiler chickens  we buy in the u.s. to meet a higher  standard of animal welfare by  .  also by that year, we will work to  ensure broiler chickens are processed  using multistep controlled atmosphere  stunning. by  , we will only use  breeds accepted by the global animal  partnership (g.a.p.) or the royal society  for the prevention of cruelty to animals.  suppliers will be asked to demonstrate compliance through certification or  third-party auditing. as qualifying breeds  have only recently been determined  by g.a.p., we anticipate that supply  will remain limited in the near future. changes that are as broad and  complicated as these require time,  investment and partnership to succeed.  we look forward to working with our  suppliers, consumers, animal welfare  experts and other stakeholders to  drive sustainable, cost-effective  progress. we have engaged current and  prospective suppliers to assess their  ability to support us in this journey. pigs: general mills supports the  development of pregnant sow  housing alternatives and has been  communicating this support to  suppliers over the years. at the end  of calendar year  ,  % of the  pork cuts we buy in the u.s. came  via supply chains in which pregnant  sows do not experience prolonged use  of gestation crates (over   days per  pregnancy cycle). this exceeded our  goal of  - % for  . we expect  to reach  % by the end of  .    looking ahead  we see potential for regenerative  agriculture to provide a paradigm shift  in agriculture’s approach to farm animal  well-being. rather than incremental  improvement, a regenerative approach  embraces animals’ natural roles in the  ecosystem. we are beginning to explore  the opportunities around regenerative  agriculture and poultry, and how that can  inform our approach moving forward.animal welfare          %  – %  – %  %to better understand the effects of pastured  broiler production on animal welfare and food  product quality and safety, general mills is  partnering with north carolina state university  to commission a study comparing pastured  poultry production compared to conventional  systems. an initial literature review will consider  the factors noted below, and will inform trials  to compare poultry management strategies  against key outcomes.  n   stocking density  on pasture n   natural behaviors n   climate n   general growth  and productivityn   genetics n   nutrition n   health n   profitability and  sustainability  assessments n   antibiotic  resistance n   microbiome n   bacterial  pathogensn   parasites n   other health  challenges n   ph upon  slaughtering  n   meat color n   water holding  capacity n   texturen   amino acid profile n   proximate analysis n   sensory  descriptive analysis n   nutritional  differencesthe effects of   poultry production animal welfare   and management microbiology   and food safety meat quality general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people in this section n   human rights     n   workplace safety    n    diversity, inclusion   and belonging n    employee well-being   and development n    strengthening hometown  communitiespeople of our board  of directors are  women and  % are  ethnically diverse. *  % of our employees say  that general mills is a  great place to work. ** % in charitable giving  contributed by general  mills and our foundation  worldwide in fiscal  .$  million *as of fiscal  . **global survey of salaried employees, october  . general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people our approach at general mills, it’s all about our people.  the passion, conviction, commitment,  care and resilience that our people bring  to everything we do at general mills   are what make the difference. we’re  proud of our efforts to create a safe,  inclusive and rewarding workplace.   we invest in our people because their  bold thoughts and big hearts allow us   to grow together. our focus on people —   including human rights and racial   equity — extends across our value chain.  more than a year after our organization’s  restructuring to prioritize growth-facing  areas critical to the company’s success,  we are seeing the positive impact of  our structure, strategy and culture investments. reshaping our portfolio,  reorganizing our internal structure and  investing in our people have helped us to  be more agile and positions us to move  forward with clarity as we embrace new  opportunities and challenges. in  ,   we introduced g stands for good,  putting the people we serve and the  planet we depend on at the heart of  our business, and making protecting  our people and strengthening our  communities two of our priorities.  working toward greater equity, inclusion  and representation by building a culture  of belonging and taking action on  issues of racial and social justice are  some of the ways we stand for people.  we also refreshed our company values  in   to better align with where we  are headed (learn more on page  ). supporting employees: we know that  becoming the undisputed leader in  food means continuously reshaping,  reimagining and rebuilding. the pandemic reinforced that how and why we work  matter more than where we work, and  since reopening our headquarters and  introducing our “work with heart”  framework in september  , we have  continued to evolve and adapt. our teams are prioritizing flexibility and being  intentional about the in-person moments  that matter — for connecting, co- creating, collaborating and celebrating.  in  , we also expanded some of  the programs we introduced in    general mills received numerous awards in  .* listed below are a few of these recognitions, illustrating our commitment to being an  employer of choice for all employees.  *recognition as of november  .world’s most   admired companies,  fortuneworld’s best   employers,   forbesmilitary friendly   employer (silver),   viqtorybest companies for  multicultural women,  seramountbest companies   for dads,   seramount  best   companies,   seramount top companies for  executive women,  seramountleading   inclusion index  company, seramountbest places to work for  lgbtq equality, human  rights campaigndisability equality index,  best place to work  disability inclusionamerica’s most   responsible companies,   newsweek  best   corporate   citizens,  bl australia great place  to work, great place  to work instituteindia’s best workplaces  for women, great place  to work institute top workplace in   brazil, great place  to work institutegreater toronto’s   top employers,   canadaawards and recognitiongeneral mills company values win  togethercontinuously  innovatechampion   belonging do the right thing,   all the time. food       planet       people general mills global responsibility      to support the mental and physical  well-being of our employees and their  families. read more about the impact  of work with heart and our expanded  benefits programs beginning on page  . governance: responsibility for our  labor practices lies primarily within our  human resources, law and supply  chain organizations. our chief human  resources officer oversees employee  programs, policies and practices, and  reports directly to the chairman and  chief executive officer. reflecting the  importance of people to our business,  general mills employs a director of  diversity, inclusion and belonging, a vice  president of talent and organization  capabilities, and a director of health,  safety and environment. at the board level, the public responsibility  committee maintains responsibility  for issues related to labor practices. ethics and compliance: general mills  is committed to conducting business  in an ethical manner that upholds  best practices, protects human rights,  complies with regulations, demonstrates  integrity, provides equal opportunity  and supports fair labor practices. our  comprehensive code of conduct and  ethics & compliance program promote  ethical behavior in all aspects of our  employees’ work. in support of our  code of conduct, the company has    corporate-level policies that outline  more detailed compliance expectations.  they cover topics such as food safety,  workplace safety, appropriate advertising, business conduct standards, anti- corruption and ethical sourcing. annually,  more than  ,  company leaders —  from managers upward — must attest to  compliance with our code of conduct  and business conduct policies. employees  receive additional training on these  policies, and our ethics line — which  is easily accessible on our intranet and  external website — allows employees  worldwide to ask questions or raise  concerns confidentially and anonymously.  our anti-corruption program includes  employee training and assesses  corruption risks with our third-party  suppliers. all allegations of third-party  corruption or employee misconduct are  promptly and thoroughly investigated and  shared in regular updates with the audit committee of the board of directors.  our supplier code of conduct outlines  our ethical expectations and is included  in our contracts with business partners. we believe that societies, economies  and businesses thrive when human  rights are protected and respected  and that human rights abuses of any  kind are unacceptable. as one of the  world’s leading food companies, we  have the responsibility to respect  human rights throughout our business  and value chain. respect for human  rights is fundamental to our purpose  of making food the world loves, our  commitment to ethical business  conduct and our corporate value of  putting people first. to stand for good,  general mills is accelerating action to  respect human rights and positively impact all the people we depend  upon — and who depend upon us. as a global food company rooted in  agriculture, we recognize that we have  an impact on human rights beyond  just our four walls. while philanthropic  programs can play a necessary role in  mitigating human rights risks, programs  alone do not offset the potential  impact within our value chain.  our goal: general mills is committed to  respecting the rights of all workers and  communities across our value chain.  our goal is to assess and address our  human rights impacts in alignment with the united nations guiding principles on  business and human rights (ungps). our approach: to better understand our  human rights risks and guide our work,  we are following a strategic framework  (see below) — which directly aligns with  the ungps — to strengthen our ability  to assess, address and prevent potential  impacts across our value chain; and  we are taking a thoughtful approach  in each step of our journey. protection  of human rights is embedded as a  priority within our global responsible  sourcing program. learn more. our policies and commitments: our  human rights policy, workplace  standards and ethical sourcing policy,  employee code of conduct, supplier code of conduct and slavery and human  trafficking statement set standards for  our company, suppliers and partners  regarding the protection of human  rights. we updated our supplier code  of conduct in fiscal   to include  expanded protections for human rights  with requirements across nine key areas:  forced labor, child labor, freedom of  association and collective bargaining, anti- discrimination and fair treatment, wages  and benefits, work hours and overtime,  labor agencies and recruitment fees,  freedom of movement, and land rights. we respect and acknowledge  internationally recognized human rights  principles. we are working diligently  to implement the united nations  guiding principles on business and human rights w we prioritize flexibility and being intentional  about bringing employees together for the  moments that matter. ninety-five percent of  our salaried employees tell us their manager  allows them flexibility to be the most effective  in their work.* *global survey of salaried employees, october  . food       planet       people general mills global responsibility      human rights (ungps) throughout our  business. we have been a signatory to  the united nations global compact  (ungc) since   and are guided  by the ungc’s   principles regarding  human rights, labor, the environment  and anti-corruption. we are also  a signatory to the united nations  women’s empowerment principles.  our human rights policy states  the standards for our company,  suppliers, and partners regarding the  protection of human rights. these  standards are based in part on the  international labor organization’s    declaration on fundamental  principles and rights at work.consistent with the principles outlined  in our employee code of conduct  and supplier code of conduct, we:  n   prohibit forced labor, child  labor and discrimination  n   maintain safe and healthy  working conditions, including  freedom of movement  n   value diversity and consider it  core to our business strategy  n   seek to compensate employees  competitively and operate in  compliance with applicable wage, work  hours, overtime and benefits laws  n   respect the principles of freedom of  association and collective bargainingn   recognize the importance of land  rights as well as the principle of  free, prior, and informed consent  (fpic) and support implementation  of fpic by national authorities. governance and accountability: the  global impact governance committee  (gigc), which consists of officers of the  company, has ultimate accountability  for the company’s global responsibility  programs and performance. our  chairman and ceo convenes the gigc  at least three times per year to monitor  and approve strategies, policies and  key investments related to sustainability  and social responsibility initiatives. the  board has made it a priority to ensure  sustainability and global responsibility human rights   strategic framework identify greatest human rights  risks across our value chain and  prioritize known salient issues  integrate human rights expectations  into policies and business practices utilize the ungp reporting framework  to publicly disclose how we assess  and address human rights impactseffectively mitigate risks and remedy  harm through stakeholder engagement,  taking action and tracking progressassess integrate act and track communicate types of actionsn   provide assurance that   our volumes were  purchased responsibly n   leverage supplier  programs for sustainable  social and environmental  outcomes n   demonstrate ingredient  sustainability certificationsn   engage with suppliers to  verify our values are upheld  in our supply chain n   expanded our responsible  sourcing and supply chain  risk center of excellence n   updated our supplier code  of conduct to strengthen  expectations for human rights n   conduct third-party  upstream due diligence for  high-risk commodities n   align and collaborate  with other stakeholders in  production landscapes for  social and ecological impact n     provide origin-level  investment with key  strategic partners n    collaborate across the sector  to address systemic issues  and support transformation n   participate in strategic  industry coalitionsingredients what we buydue diligence how we buylandscapes the places we buy fromsectors issues across the sectoraction within supply chains action beyond supply chainstaking action to advance human rights and regenerative ecosystems* *based on a framework developed by proforest. food       planet       people general mills global responsibility      are taken seriously at all levels of  the company. the board’s public  responsibility committee provides  oversight and receives regular updates  from the operating teams, including  approval of general mills’ slavery  and human trafficking statement.  at general mills, we have resources  appointed to advance our human rights  strategy. the director of global impact  operations integration has accountability  for advancing respect for human rights  across our value chain and reports to the  chief sustainability and global impact  officer. the director of global impact  operations integration also oversees  the human rights integration team,  a cross-functional team advancing  general mills’ work on human rights.  the global responsible sourcing  program has a dedicated team and is  part of our global sourcing operations  and capabilities (gsoc) group. gsoc  reports to the chief procurement  officer and is focused on integrating  key capabilities into sourcing processes,  including those related to protecting  human rights, for general mills globally. risk assessment: our approach  to human rights is informed by an  assessment conducted in   by  shift, the leading center of expertise  on the ungps, of practices across  our business operations and supply  chain according to the ungps in  combination with our ongoing global  responsible sourcing risk assessments. we have defined our focus as the most  salient issues in our value chain —   those issues where our impact to  people is greatest — by examining  the relative severity and likelihood of each issue. while we seek to  address all potential risks, this salient-  issues lens informs our strategy. due diligence: we have put in place  a range of due diligence measures  for our own operations and supply  chains. these measures include audits  conducted as part of our global  responsible sourcing program, which  use the four-pillar sedex members  ethical trade audit (smeta) protocol  or mutually recognized audits to  assess our supply chain on social  and environmental practices. as we  continue to educate our sourcing  teams and other internal audiences  about human rights topics and our  updated supplier code of conduct, they  apply those insights when conducting  supplier audits. for example, as our  sourcing team was vetting a potential  new co-packer, they identified a non- compliance with one of the human  rights expectations outlined in our  code. this expectation serves to ensure  workers are protected from any risk  of forced labor. after discussing our  expectations with the potential new partner, this organization revised their  employment guidelines to meet code  expectations and to the benefit of  their employees. as of october  ,  more than   of our employees and    of our suppliers have received  training about the expanded human  rights requirements within our  updated supplier code of conduct.  while our global responsible sourcing  program is one of the key ways we  address human rights risks, we also apply  our human rights focus to other business  processes, such as integrating newly  acquired businesses and as a cross- cutting issue in several environmental  initiatives. we recognize our policies  and programs may not prevent all  adverse impacts in our value chain. our  aim is to provide effective responses  where we find impacts directly linked  to our business operations. we have  in place a variety of mechanisms to  allow employees, stakeholders and  other potentially affected individuals  to raise concerns, such as our ethics   line, which allows individuals to remain  anonymous (where allowed by law).  we encourage all leaders to foster  an environment where employees  feel comfortable raising concerns  and will not retaliate — or permit  retaliation — against any employee  for good faith reporting of ethical or  legal concerns about human rights or  cooperating in a company investigation.  learn more about our efforts in  the responsible sourcing portion of  the planet section of this report. ingredient sourcing: some of the raw  materials and ingredients general mills  sources for use in our products are recognized as posing a higher risk of  negative human rights impact due to  their growing regions and production  methods. we are conscious of this  impact — such as for cocoa, vanilla,  palm oil, seafood and sugarcane. we  engage with key strategic partners to  help us enable social and environmental  progress in these value chains. for  example, our ongoing work with  conservation international (ci) aims to  review and strengthen our engagement  in seafood supply chains through risk  assessment and mitigation strategies and  identification of potential environmental  and social impact opportunities. in   , ci trained our seafood buyers and  employees from our pet food business  to increase awareness about risks related  to specific seafood species and sourcing  regions based on guidance from ci. building on the human rights assessment  conducted by our partners at proforest   in   to help us proactively identify and  respond to potential or emerging risk  areas related to our cocoa, sugarcane  forced labor salient   issueschild labor wages/earnings  and working hoursfreedom of  association and  collective bargainingland rights    (indigenous   people) w through our supplier scorecard, we are  elevating due diligence around the rights of  sugarcane workers. food       planet       people general mills global responsibility      making a positive impact on people’s lives illustrated below are examples of human rights impacts across our priority ingredient supply chains. diversifying   farmer incomes and  improving livelihoodsadvancing supply chain traceability  and supplier engagement  to advance social and  environmental ambitions  for palm oil improving farmers’ dietary  diversity and   nutritionenabling economic  empowerment  through village  savings and loan  associations  and income  diversification  projects improving   smallholder livelihoods  and reducing  deforestation through  origin-level investment  in indonesia with  musim mas mitigating   and preventing  child labor,  supporting  education  and training  communities about  children’s rights working   collaboratively with peers  through the consumer  goods forum forest positive  coalition of action palm oil  working group promoting   social and  economic  inclusion at the  community level  with a focus  on gender and  childrenadvancing   agroforestry and  regenerative  practices with  duke lemur  center sava  conservation  project achieving roundtable  on sustainable  palm oil (rspo)  certification providing   clean cookstoves  to improve healthimproving   agricultural productivity  and ecological resilienceimproving   safety and working  conditions of cane cutters  through cross-sectoral  collaboration at origins collaborating   with industry peers through  the world cocoa foundation  cocoa & forests initiativeengaging   with community members to  mitigate and prevent child labor  collaborating    with peers as   bonsucro membersempowering   women and communities   through village savings and  loan associations, women’s  groups and community  development committeesadvancing    regenerative  agriculture practices  at origin in mexico  with proforest palm oil** vanilla****cocoa*sugarcane*** *impact achieved in côte d’ivoire and ghana through: the cocoa sustainability initiative (csi) created by general mills and care international; partnership with pur projet; support for  cocoa horizons and cocoa promise supplier programs; action plans developed with proforest; and membership in the world cocoa foundation (wcf). **action through partnership with proforest for supplier engagement, supply chain traceability, grievance management, sectoral collaboration via consumer goods forum forest positive  coalition of action; certification through purchasing rspo segregated and mass balance palm and palmtrace credits; and smallholder landscape program at origin with musim mas group. ***action through partnership with proforest, verité, and industry peers at origin in mexico and via membership in bonsucro ****action through partnership with people power inclusion (ppi) at origin in the sava region of madagascar and through partnership with the duke university lemur center sava  conservation project at origin in the sava region. and palm oil supply chains, we  introduced a sugarcane supplier  scorecard in  . proforest helped us  gather information for the scorecard  from our top sugarcane suppliers  globally to evaluate their human rights  due diligence processes, identify risks  and begin planning for actions to close  any process gaps. learn more about  our efforts to strengthen our approach  to addressing supply chain risks in  the planet section of this report. looking ahead: our journey to advance  human rights is one of continuous  improvement. as we continue to  grow and develop our program, we  plan to expand our efforts in line with  the ungp reporting framework. our  focus in the coming year includes: n   continue building due diligence  capabilities to proactively identify  risks where impacts to people are  most severe across our value chain n   integrating human rights  considerations into environmental  strategies, including putting people  at the center of our approach as we  work to  address deforestation risks  in ways that also benefit the people  living in affected ecosystems n   increasing employee awareness of  our enhanced human rights strategy  n   continue integrating expectations  into standard business processes n   further articulating human rights  priorities and leveraging our internal  metrics for measuring impact  and increasing accountability for  mitigating human rights risks food       planet       people general mills global responsibility      our approach: general mills is  committed to creating a culture that  ensures zero harm to our employees  and the environment. working safely  and in an environmentally conscious  manner is not simply a matter of  personal accountability or choice. as a  corporation, we relentlessly seek to learn  from our work and improve controls  to prevent and mitigate significant  safety and environmental events.  systems: we communicate safety  information and measure progress  with the following systems: we use a single, standardized  environmental and safety management  system (esms) at general mills owned  supply chain locations and ensure  uniform implementation of standards  globally through functional auditing  and a regional support structure. through our global safety tracking and  environmental management system  (gstems), we track safety data at  all production facilities worldwide,  document necessary actions to reduce  future risks and communicate progress. our progress: general mills has a history  of strong safety performance and culture.  in fiscal  , we implemented new  injury and illness reporting criteria and  metrics to improve our safety culture  and focus more intently on eliminating  incidents and situations with the greatest  potential to significantly harm our people.  the decision to change our reporting  criteria and metrics was informed by current best practices for preventing  serious injuries and fatalities (sif),  including insights from the campbell  institute center of environmental health  and safety excellence and guidance  from the u.s. national safety council’s  (nsc) global occupational safety and  health network. (general mills is an  nsc member.) the new safety metric  criteria at general mills are company- specific and based on the globally  recognized principles of the astm e   international standard for recording  occupational injuries and illnesses. fiscal   was the second year for  our updated safety metrics.* data was  gathered from   tracked locations,    of which are production facilities  and innovation, technology and quality  centers. those   locations were  the focus of our safety improvement  work. safety results from those  locations in fiscal   include: n    .  injury/illness rate compared to  the fiscal    .  baseline. the rate  increase was due to a  % reduction  in work hours in fiscal   and a   % increase in company reportable  injuries/illnesses during the pandemic.  more than  % of these reduced  hours came from operations that had  limited or no associated injuries. n   five sif events globally among our  employees, including four serious  injuries and one fatality. sadly, we  lost one of our employees due to an  accident at one of our production  facilities in iowa, united states.n   zero contractor fatalities globally.  n     locations operated with  zero reportable injuries. in fiscal  , we added to our safety  metrics by establishing a baseline for  company reportable environmental  incidents (ereportables), which  are unplanned releases into the  atmosphere, a body of water, or soil,  requiring regulatory notification.  our fiscal   ereportables  baseline was  . we will continue to  track and report on this metric. we continued reinforcing our  safety programs in fiscal  : n   standards – we continued to  operationalize our first-ever standard  focused specifically on sif prevention.  n   measurement – we leveraged our  fiscal   safety metrics change and  improved our capability to identify  and reduce sif potential globally. (we  identified and took action to address  over  ,  potential sif incidents in  fiscal  .) we also deployed new  company environmental metrics  and began data capture related to  significant environmental incidents.  n   mitigation – we prioritized more  than us$  million of capital toward  improving controls related to our  critical safety and environmental risks.  n   learning and culture – we launched  safety leadership  . , our next  safety culture offering, which is  based on principles of human  and organizational performance,  at eight locations globally. leadership and responsibility: n   our global safety governance board,  composed of regional operating vice  presidents, oversees safety leadership,  structure, processes and actions. n   senior-level responsibility for workplace  safety lies with the director of global  safety and environment, who reports  to the chief supply chain officer. n   our corporate safety council is  led by our chairman and chief  executive officer, who is responsible  for general mills policy and safety  culture. the council, which includes  key members of the company’s  executive leadership team, reviews  safety progress and key initiatives.  the council’s focus is on growing  safety culture in both manufacturing  and nonmanufacturing locations. at general mills, we continuously  innovate to improve workplace safety and  environmental protection. our leaders  strive to create a psychologically safe  environment for open conversations  about safety and the environment  where learning is the primary outcome.  through this collaborative approach,  we gain a better understanding of  how work is done and what additional  controls are needed to keep our  people and the environment safe. workplace safety *global incident data includes all general mills owned/operated facilities, including yoki, häagen-dazs shops, blue buffalo and global offices. rate is based on the number of  injuries/illnesses times  , ,  divided by number of hours worked.    general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people our approach at general mills, we believe that a diverse  workforce fostered through inclusion —  and a sense of belonging — is the right  thing to do not only for our society but  for our business. we are dedicated to  reflecting the world we seek. we know  that meaningful change takes time —  and it will take all of us to make progress.  we are committed to continuing  this critical journey knowing that we  can stand for good and champion  belonging in everything we do.our goal is to foster a culture of  inclusion and belonging for all. we  actively acknowledge, respect and  value all dimensions of diversity —  including gender, race, sexual orientation,  ability, background and beliefs. we are  committed to advancing racial equity  within and outside our workplace. our strategy: leveraging data and our  global inclusion framework (see graphic  on the next page), we hold ourselves  accountable for continually assessing  progress around the world. learn more about how general mills is focused on  respecting all dimensions of diversity. allyship is an important part of how  we reinforce a culture of inclusion at  general mills. we help build awareness,  empathy and action among colleagues  through our real allyship framework,  a series of scenario-based e-learning  modules. we have made those resources  publicly available to promote further  learning and social justice. more than   ,  general mills employees have  committed to their allyship journey  to authentically support individuals  and communities who have been  marginalized or overlooked. learn more. we also have a robust courageous  conversations program that tackles  challenging topics with openness and  authenticity, open to all employees. on a more ongoing basis, we promote a library  of more than   timely inclusion topics  for employees to use at the beginning  of meetings to foster discussion, build  empathy and increase understanding. governance and leadership: leadership  advocacy and support of our inclusion  efforts are critical to creating our aspired  culture. each of our senior leaders is  responsible for creating inclusion plans  for their respective organizations and  ensuring their talent pipelines reflect the  diversity of our talent pool. our chief  executive officer and chief human  resources officer review progress  throughout the year, including during  our senior-level talent reviews, and we  review progress with the full board of  directors twice a year. our management  team also supports our inclusion efforts  as sponsors of our employee networks.diversity, inclusion  and belonging our journeyas a  -year-old company, we know the sobering reality of systemic inequality is not new, and it prevents individuals   and communities from achieving their full potential. we have a long history of advancing equity and inclusion both within  and outside our workplace. we know there’s still a lot of work to do, and we are committed to continue building on our  legacy of action.our story r learn more about our commitment to  diversity, equity and inclusion. watch video                         began support  of the united  negro college  fundhired first  female  officerhired first  minority  officernamed reatha  clark king as  president of the  general mills  foundationformalized  supplier diversity  efforts, including  focus on minority- owned businessesfirst day of action and  announcement of racial  equity commitments;  second employee  network summit:  accelerate belongingthird employee  network summit:  boldly being; boldly  belonging, including  the newest network,  disability networkchosen for  th consecutive  year as one of the “best  companies for multicultural  women” by working mother;  seven years later received its  hall of fame awardfirst employee  network summit:  building a culture  of belonging  began  recruiting at  historically  black colleges  and universitiesappointed  first female  board  memberappointed  first minority  board  memberhosted first  annual dr. martin  luther king jr.  holiday breakfastcreated the  general mills  office of  diversityexpanded public  disclosure of  detailed racial/ ethnic workforce  diversity datalaunched an allyship  program to take intentional  action, like listening, learning  and uplifting individuals and  communities who have been  marginalized or overlookedlaunched the courageous  conversations, aimed  at providing a safe and  supportive place to have  candid conversations about  important social issues food       planet       people general mills global responsibility      employee networks  our employee networks are the  foundational building blocks for our  culture of belonging. they bring  together colleagues across locations  and backgrounds for community  building, networking, professional  development and community outreach.  we established the first general mills  employee networks more than   years ago to give employee communities  space to connect, process, react  and grow. our networks include: n   women’s leadership network   n   betty’s family network (lgbtq+) n   asian leader network n   black champions network n   the familia network (hispanic) n   veterans network n   disability network employee network summit   in november  , nearly   employees  came together in minneapolis to engage  with leaders and inspirational speakers,  reflect on our new value of champion  belonging, hear updates on our racial  equity commitments and connect  with other network members. driven  by the theme “boldly being, boldly  belonging,” the summit explored and  celebrated what it means to boldly bring your most authentic self to  work – and beyond the walls of general  mills. it was a gathering full of heart,  and employees left feeling inspired.  r the three chairs of the   employee  network summit snapped a photo with  event participants in minneapolis. r watch this video to learn more about our  employee networks and to get a flavor of  “the heart of general mills.” watch video experienced  community  building  said participation   in employee  networks increased  their sense of  belongingvalued employee  network  programming employee   network impact in  , employee network  participants reported feeling more  committed to general mills, including:   %  %  %general mills global inclusion framework ensure an inclusive culture that encourages  all employees around the world to share their  unique perspectives and ideas in a safe and  respectful environmentensure we recruit, retain, develop and advance  a workforce that reflects the diversity of the  consumers we serve in our markets around   the world at all levels of the organization. ensure our brands and products consider   the needs of an increasingly diverse consumer  and customer base around the world while  creating consumer messages that are   respectful of that diversity.ensure our external impact is inclusive of  diverse communities in our markets around  the world through philanthropy, volunteerism  and social good.societal  inclusionworkforce  inclusion consumer  inclusioncultural  inclusionthe refresh of our company values in   , detailed on page  , elevated  “champion belonging” as one of the four  key values that guide our decisions and  actions. across the company, leaders  are focused on our new engaging  leader behavior to  model inclusion by  intentionally recognizing  and embracing each  person’s diverse identity,  background, viewpoints  and talents to create a  sense of belonging for all.champion belonging of participants said the  summit helped them build a  deeper sense of empathy for  colleagues in other networks %respect and include  all voices, ideas and  perspectives.champion   belonging food       planet       people general mills global responsibility      our actions to advance equity in representationequitable food access our role: we will direct our philanthropy to work locally  and nationally in the u.s. with food banks and anti- hunger organizations to address food insecurity that  disproportionately impacts communities of color. see our actions in the food section of this report.equity in education equity in representation our role: box tops for educationtm will build on its  legacy of giving nearly us$  billion to schools, with   a renewed focus on creating greater equity in  education for kids of color in the u.s. so they can   reach their full potential. learn about our efforts to improve equity in   education on page  .our role: we will address representation and access   opportunities at general mills in the u.s. by: n   doubling the representation of our black managers   (see page  ). n   increasing our minority representation to  % (see page  ). n   doubling our spending with minority-owned suppliers   (see page  ). at general mills, we are committed to minority  representation among our employees, which  is why we pledged to increase our overall  representation of minorities to  % and  double our representation of black managers  in the u.s. we have seen people of color  representation growth across all job bands,  and for the first time ever,  % of our officers  are people of color.  since making our racial equity commitments  in  , we’ve: n   made significant progress on representation  of people of color at the officer and  director levels within our company.  n    increased representation of people  of color in professional roles to more  than  % (first time over  %). n   made slight progress on black  manager representation. to continue making progress, we are focusing  on three pillars: leader accountability and  manager capability, enhanced integration  in our talent processes, and continued  investments in development. these efforts  are critical to making sure everyone can  thrive and succeed at general mills. “general mills has been a leader in board and officer representation dating back to  our first female board member in  . we know we live our purpose best when  our workforce represents the diversity of our consumers.”  — ceo jeff harmeningr learn more about how we are making  progress to advance equity at general mills. watch videominnesota business coalition for racial equity through our partnership with our  corporate peers, local and state  government, community leaders and  others, we are taking bold and leading  actions needed to combat racism and  social inequality  and ensure our  community is  a place where  all can flourish.  two years ago, general mills was a founding member  of the minnesota business coalition for  racial equity to create sustainable and  meaningful change around racial and  social justice for black minnesotans. as  part of our ongoing support to mbcre,  a general mills employee serves as  the organization’s managing director.  learn more about mbcre and our  commitment to advancing racial equity in  our communities beginning on page  .  people of color in  leadership roles at  general mills * *as of  / / of board of directors of company officers  of professional roles %  %  %v we’ve made our  real allyship resources  publicly available to  promote learning and  social justice. our commitment to racial equity the issues of social injustice are broad and complex. we have committed to lead differently, vocally and tirelessly, and we are focusing our efforts where our expertise can make the greatest impact:  equitable food access, equity in education and equity in representation. food       planet       people general mills global responsibility      whitew asianaamerican indian or alaskan nativeaa black or african americanb hispanic or latinol native hawaiian or pacific islandernh two or more racestboard of  directors w:  %b:  % l:  % total   general mills w:  %a:  %aa:  % b:  % l:  % t:  % support w:  %a:  %aa:  % b:  % l:  % t:  % production w:  %a:  %aa:  % b:  % l:  % t:  %retail w:  %a:  % b:  %l:  % t:  %w:  %aa:  % a:  % b:  % l:  % t:  % director officer w:  %a:  % b:  % l:  % t:  % w:  %a:  % b:  % l:  % t:  % professional w:  %a:  % b:  % l:  % t:  % managerracial/ethnic diversity* *represents u.s data as of  / / . percentages may not total   due to rounding.the employment data from our eeo-  report can be found here. the categories in the eeo-  are prescribed by the u.s. federal government and do not represent how our workforce  is organized or how we measure our progress. as a result, we believe the information reported above is a more useful and meaningful reflection of our company’s diversity. in this  report, we are expanding our disclosures to include our support, production and retail employees. for more information about diversity at general mills, see the gender diversity  data on page   and supplier diversity data on page  . diversity and inclusion recognition  best places to work for  lgbtq equality, human  rights campaignleading inclusion   index company,  seramountdisability equality index,  best place to work for  disability inclusionbest companies  for multicultural  women, seramounttop companies for  executive women,  seramountmilitary friendly   employer (silver),  viqtory  world’s   best employers,   forbes  food       planet       people general mills global responsibility      professional  % men % women women’s  empowerment we promote women’s education, training  and professional development within  our businesses and supply chains. our women’s leadership network  chapters around the world offer  networking and development events  in addition to mentoring circles. our  women in leadership organization also  advocates on behalf of women at all  levels of the company to purposefully  cultivate a pipeline of women leaders and  a culture where women can thrive. see  related “break the bias” story to the right. we are committed to gender equality  in the workplace, including pay equity.  in partnership with external experts,  we regularly conduct thorough pay equity reviews to ensure equitable  pay outcomes for each job group. as  a result of this work, we are assured  that our pay systems and practices are  generally fair and equitable among all  employees (+/-  % of  %) without  regard to gender, race or ethnicity. r we are committed to gender equality in  the workplace. gender diversity* officer retailboard of directors support  % men % men % women % women  % men % men % women % women  % men % men % women % women  % men % men % women % womentotal general millsdirector managerproduction break the bias in march  , the general mills  women’s leadership network (wln)  hosted a two-day virtual event aligned  with the international women’s day  theme, “break the bias.” the gathering  focused on building a gender-equal  world free of bias, stereotypes  and discrimination by celebrating  women’s achievement, raising  awareness against bias and taking  action for equality. a dynamic group  of four keynote speakers included authors, social advocates, activists  and female empowerment experts.  nearly  ,  people in   different  locations across   countries participated  in the event, including wln members,  their allies and, for the first time, general  mills partners, including women- owned businesses and other diverse  suppliers (see related story on page  ).  resources from the event were shared  companywide after the meeting to  inspire employees to #breakthebias.  r participants shared their own  #breakthebias images.r members of the wln   event   steering team. *represents global data as of  / / . percentages may not total   due to rounding. while the graphs above represent gender as binary, we recognize that gender also can be nonbinary, including people whose gender identity doesn’t  sit comfortably with ‘man’ or ‘woman.’ food       planet       people general mills global responsibility      supplier diversity our approach: general mills has  been committed to establishing and  growing relationships with certified  diverse suppliers in the u.s. for more  than   years, providing opportunity  to underrepresented groups while  fostering job creation and economic  development.* by requiring businesses  to be certified by our partner advocacy  organizations, we stay true to our goal  of providing diverse suppliers with  greater access to our spending while  bringing credibility through third- party authentication. these inclusion  efforts also support general mills by  delivering innovation, agility, cost  savings and market insights about  our increasingly diverse consumers.  our supplier diversity team, which is  embedded in our global supply chain  organization, builds partnerships across  the company to match diverse suppliers  with business needs and opportunities.  the team integrates supplier diversity  into the standard sourcing process, trains all sourcing buyers and provides tools to  advance the program. sourcing category  managers incorporate diversity into their  strategic plans to drive progress and  share results with sourcing leadership.our approach in recent years has  evolved by applying robust data,  standard processes and business  integration that mirrors our  sourcing organization workflow.our actions: we continue to grow  our supplier diversity program. in  fiscal   we successfully: n   expanded our supplier diversity  program globally to include all  *diverse suppliers are defined as businesses  % owned and operated by racial minorities, women, veterans, and disabled and lgbtq+ individuals.fy  fy  fy  diversity classification u.s.* u.s.* u.s.*non-u.s. markets +  pet food business**total fy  minority-owned businesses $  .  $  .  $  .  $  .  $ .  women-owned businesses $  .  $  .  $  .  $  .  $ .  veteran-owned businesses $  .  $  .  $  .  $ .  disability-owned businesses*** $  .  $  .  $  .  $ .  lgbtq+-owned businesses $  .  $  .  $  .  $ .  total spending $  .  $  .  $  .  $  .  $ .  percentage of total global  supplier spending)**** . %  . %  . %general mills spending with diverse suppliers  (fiscal  , us$ million)* *for suppliers certified in multiple categories of diversity, spending with those businesses is included under their primary diversity status; includes tier   and   tier   suppliers. **added for  : non-u.s. regions include latin america, asia, europe and australia. pet represents general mills’ blue buffalo business. ***disability-owned business enterprise (dobe) certification — businesses owned and operated by people with disabilities. ****diverse supplier spending as a percentage of total global supplier spending.united nations women’s empowerment principles              across our supply chain, we work to  help increase the economic resilience of  women. additionally, general mills made  a pledge seven years ago to advance the  united nations women’s empowerment  principles, part of the un global  compact, to help achieve greater equality  for women in the workplace, marketplace  and community. these principles are  designed to promote gender equality  and women’s empowerment.establish high-level  corporate leadership  for gender equalitytreat all women and  men fairly at work —  respect and support  human rights and  nondiscriminationensure the health,  safety and well-being  of all women and  men workerspromote education,  training and  professional  development  for womenimplement enterprise  development, supply  chain and marketing  practices that  empower womenpromote equality  through community  initiatives and  advocacymeasure and  publicly report on  progress to achieve  gender equality food       planet       people general mills global responsibility      of our sourcing regions and our  blue buffalo pet food business. n   achieved  % growth in spending  with diverse suppliers.* this growth  was achieved through the onboarding  of new diverse suppliers, expanding  business with current diverse  suppliers and database and systems  cleanup. the impact includes: 	u     % growth in spending  with tier   suppliers 	u      % growth in spending  with tier   suppliersn   conducted benchmarking to see  how our supplier diversity program  compares to the most advanced  programs at peer companies. n   expanded our diverse certification  sponsorship program aimed at helping  small and startup businesses achieve  diverse certification status with  funding and consulting support from  general mills. as of october  ,  general mills has sponsored six diverse  business enterprise certifications,  and we plan to continue growing  the program in the years ahead. n   launched new tools and capabilities  to track and report on diverse  suppliers globally, including for  our blue buffalo business. n   hosted a virtual trends and  opportunities forum for more  than   minority-owned business  enterprises from five countries focused  on key industry trends, request for  proposal (rfp) process insights, pitch training and case studies. this  first-of-its kind event, in partnership  with the north central minority  supplier development council  (ncmsdc), shared insights about  how to do business with general  mills and highlighted our focus  areas in today’s dynamic market. collaboration: we are active   members in national and regional  advocacy organizations, such as the  ncmsdc, national minority supplier  development council (nmsdc),  weconnect international, women’s  business enterprise national council  (wbenc), women’s business  development center (wbdc) and  the national lgbt chamber of  commerce (nglcc). through these  organizations and other industry  groups, we benchmark, share  best practices and network with  prospective diverse suppliers. recognizing a woman-owned business partner general mills continues to increase our  spending with women-owned business  enterprises (wbes). we recognized one  of our longtime wbe suppliers during our  international women’s day (iwd) celebration  in march  . promotion management  center (pmc), a valued partner to general  mills for nearly four decades, spoke during  the iwd event opening ceremony. pmc is a  full-service fulfillment company providing  dynamic fulfillment and promotion solutions  to general mills, including holiday gift boxes, premiums, personal protective equipment  (ppe) and direct-to-consumer services.  pmc consistently delivers operational  excellence, incredible customer service  and reliable and timely delivery. we thank  pmc for always coming through for general  mills, including helping to keep us safe with  ppe throughout the covid experience. in fiscal   we achieved our  corporate commitment to double  our spending with minority-owned  businesses, and in   we built  on that progress by increasing our  spending an additional  %. equity in  representationwith our diverse spending in  fiscal  , we were able to:  n   create  ,  jobs n   support us$ .  million in wages n   contribute us$ .  million  in total economic impact  diverse supplier  spending impact “pmc is a full-service fulfillment  company providing a wide  range of services to general  mills. we are privileged to be a  valued partner to general mills  for   years.”  — deann monson, president, pmc r pmc served as the primary distributor for  pandemic-related general mills ppe supplies.*includes fiscal   spending with tier   and tier   suppliers. tier   direct suppliers provide ingredients used in our food products or packaging. tier   refers to the diversity spending our suppliers have in their own supply chains. food       planet       people general mills global responsibility      we take a holistic approach to supporting our employees, focusing on whole-person well-being. supporting employee well-being physical emotional financial career social/communityour approach: we know that when our  employees are at their best, general mills  is at its best, so we provide resources to  support the development and well-being  of our employees and their families.  we create a work environment that  encourages innovation, collaboration,  a learning mindset and flexibility —  and that helps every employee bring  their unique self to work every day. our progress: we support our  employees in adapting to change —   at work, at home and in our communities.  guided by our belief that the “g” in  general mills stands for good, we stand  for people, and we put our people first   in everything we do. in  , we continued to build upon  our “work with heart” framework, a  set of guiding principles for our new  ways of working focused on how work  gets done, not where (when business  allows). we designed and created work  with heart, introduced in july  , to  allow for generous personal and team flexibility, enabling our employees  to work from home, the office and  elsewhere based on their own needs and the needs of the business. work  with heart is a fluid framework that  recognizes the reality of ongoing change  and different job requirements while  supporting the work to be done and  the importance of coming together  with intentionality — in-person and  virtually — with our culture of inclusion  and belonging as our north star. employee well-being  and development r as part of their work with heart journey,  our pizza and cookie business unit team  created a structure with mondays focused  on project management, tuesdays and  wednesdays on running the business,  thursdays on collaboration and decision- making, and fridays preparing for the week  ahead. this structure allowed people to get  the most benefit when they chose to come in  person — to connect, co-create, collaborate  and celebrate together. this intentionality  dramatically reduced the amount of  meetings so the team could focus on what  was most important.of employees said   work with heart has  allowed them to be most  effective in how they work.*  % *pulse survey of global salaried employees,   august  .work with our values in  , we refreshed our company values to drive clarity and unity of purpose for  all our employees going forward. following a period of transformation over the past  few years, it was time to revisit and update our values to ensure they remain reflective  of who we are and what we aspire to be as a company. our updated company  values reinforce who we are, how we treat each other and how work gets done.  win  togethercontinuously  innovatechampion   belonging do the right thing, all the time.respect and include  all voices, ideas and  perspectives.never stop learning,  evolving and exploring  to stay ahead.compete to lead through  shared goals, teamwork  and heart. preserve and grow the trust we’ve earned from our  consumers, customers and communities. food       planet       people general mills global responsibility        progress impact of mental health and  well-being programs:*employee benefits  and well-being guided by our focus on whole-person  well-being, we provide a comprehensive  network of resources and robust,  competitive benefits to support  the well-being of our employees  and their families, including:*  n   spring health: a confidential resource  that provides mental health support  services to employees and their  families, including dedicated support  from a care navigator, personalized  care plans, therapy, meditation  exercises, coaching to manage stress,  medication management, substance  use support and other services to  help navigate life’s challenges. in   , we increased mental health  access to our dependents ages   and  older, an expansion from age   and  older, to be responsive to employee  and dependent needs as they  navigate through the post-pandemic  recovery. as a part of this expansion,  we connected an additional    dependents to mental and emotional  well-being tools and resources through  spring health. by providing employees  and their dependents access to mental  well-being resources in a timely  and efficient manner, we’re better  able to reduce work-life stressors  and improve overall well-being. n   my wellbeing: a behavior-change  program that helps employees  prioritize their well-being, including  eating habits, sleep, physical  activity, relationships and finances.  the program makes it easy to track progress, connect, and  compete with friends, family and  co-workers to earn rewards. n   health benefits: we offer employees  and eligible dependents medical,  dental and vision plans starting on  the first day of employment. our  health benefits are comprehensive and  competitive — we pay, on average,   % of health plan premiums. n   chronic condition management:  whether high blood pressure,  diabetes, chronic pain or other related  conditions, our benefits package offers  solutions to meet employees wherever  they are along their well-being journey.  in  , we implemented a robust  musculoskeletal solution to provide  easy access to at-home therapy for  employees experiencing acute and  chronic pain at no-cost to them. this solution, in partnership with our  environmental health and safety  teams, supports physical health and  well-being both at work and at home.  n   time off: we provide vacation,  holidays, sick leave, flexible work  arrangements and leave benefits for  all life stages, including up to two  weeks of paid caregiver leave per  year to care for immediate family  members, including transitioning  aging parents into assisted living,  and   weeks paid parental leave for  new parents, including birth mothers,  fathers, partners and adoptive parents.  we also offer unpaid personal leave,  such as up-to- -week sabbaticals.  n   pay: employees earn a competitive  salary and annual bonus when  they meet our ambitious goals. salaries are reviewed each year, with  increases based on performance  and the market value of the position.  annual cash bonuses are based on  performance (individual, company  and, in some cases, business unit). n   retirement and savings plans: general  mills offers tools and resources to  manage current and future savings  goals. eligibility for general mills’   (k) plan starts on the first day  of employment, and the company  provides significant matching and  annual contributions. employees  can access free, confidential  education on managing money,  college and tax savings, and more. n   stock and ownership: company stock  is available in the  (k) plan. our  voluntary stock purchase program  allows another ownership opportunity.  annual stock grants are available to  some management-level employees. n   insurance: we provide company- paid life, short-term and long-term  disability insurance. we also offer  employees options for long-term care,  pet, auto and homeowners insurance.  n   education assistance: we offer  reimbursement for job-related  courses and other education  *benefits vary for employees by location and other factors.mental health   weeks faster:  .  days average wait time  for therapy vs.  -day national average  % of employees reported  improvement in depression severity  % of employees reported   improvement in anxiety severity on average, members saw improving  symptoms in as little as  .  therapy  sessions for depression symptoms  and  .  sessions for anxiety.**   + individuals received critical support  for positive ideations/intent of suicide  + members actively engaged  in substance use treatment > % employee satisfaction with  their providers and navigators overall well-being ***  % of inactive people are more active since  participating in our well-being program  % of participating employees are  maintaining healthy lifestyles  % of high-risk people have lost weight  % of high-risk people with hypertension  reduced their blood pressure *data based on the experiences of employees  and dependents ages   and older in the u.s.  and canada who participated in spring health  programs from january to september  . **compared to world class clinical trials where  participants report improving symptoms  in an average of  .  appointments.  ***results for those who participated  in the my wellbeing program.   food       planet       people general mills global responsibility      programs. employees may be  eligible for an unpaid leave of  absence to further their education. other perks: n   learning, developing and growing —   tools and resources to help  employees expand and grow as  professionals. see more details in the  development and training content. n   giving back to the community —  volunteer opportunities and donation  match programs. learn more  about how we are strengthening  hometown communities. n   talent referral — bonuses for  referring top talent to join  the general mills team.employee  engagement our ability to make food the world  loves is driven by our strategy of  engaging people in a culture of learning,  growing and belonging. general mills  is a place where people can explore  new perspectives and reimagine  possibilities every day. we inspire  people to bring their best — bold  thinkers with big hearts who challenge  one another and grow together.  our approach: we know that engaged  employees create value and drive  business performance. we continually  work to build a more agile, engaged organization by listening to employees,  taking action and measuring progress. we survey employees annually to  measure five drivers of employee  engagement: proud of my company,  inspired by my leaders, connected to  my team, supported by my manager  and energized by my work. in fiscal  , we continued to evolve our  strategy for how we listen to employees  in order to understand, anticipate  and respond to changing employee  needs. we heard from employees  through internal surveys, interviews,  focus groups, employee networks  and processes like performance  management and development planning.  progress of our employees say they are  comfortable at work saying  or doing what they think is  best for general mills.*employee  engagement  *global survey of salaried employees, october  . “the culture of general mills  is very open, transparent and  inclusive. our leaders inspire  us to do better, learn new  things and encourage us to  try new ways of working.  the company also values  work/life balance, and helps  and supports employees in  difficult times.”  — general mills employeeengagement trends* r while our five categories — connected, supported, energized, proud and inspired — remained the same as with previous surveys, the  questions within them changed in   as we updated our survey content to align with our refreshed company values and behaviors. *annual global survey of salaried employees, october  .  %   %   %   %   %  % overall connected  to my teamsupported by  my managerenergized  by my workproud of my  companyinspired by  my leadersof our employees say that   general mills is a great  place to work.* %  % food       planet       people general mills global responsibility      development   and training our approach: development of all  employees is a core value at general  mills. a recent employee engagement  survey revealed that  % of employees  feel they have the opportunity to improve  their skills at general mills.* learning  is a key ingredient of our approach,  including formal and informal engaging  leader experiences and resources,  employee network connections and a  range of development opportunities  at all stages of employees’ careers: n   a new employee onboarding  experience to help employees quickly  learn, grow, belong and contribute   n   hands-on experiences, including  challenging work assignments  and robust job rotations n   guidance from others, including  feedback from managers,  mentors and peers n   real-time learning resources for  leaders and all employees n   structured learning — offered both  in person and online — including  onboarding for new employees,  professional development for all  and leadership development n   our performance management  process, in which nearly   ,  employees globally  participated in fiscal  . our progress: in  , we refreshed our  engaging leader behaviors alongside  the refresh of our company values.  internal feedback from employees and leaders, combined with external  insights, helped us evolve our definitions  to increase their relevance and better  address the needs of our employees  now and into the future. quick ideas  and deeper toolkits were provided to all employees** to help them learn about  and start implementing the behaviors  and live our values. we also evolved  our team effectiveness resources to  help leaders overcome barriers, build  connections and maximize impact. using short, biweekly emails to leaders,  we delivered inspiration and ideas in  new ways focused on our themes of  caring for self, others and the business. *annual global survey of salaried employees, october  . **all employees globally, including nonmanufacturing and manufacturing teams.   progress development and training hours of training completed by our  employees, equaling  .  average  hours per employee.* ,  +  *includes more than  ,  salaried and wage   employees annually. engaging  leaderleader   & employee  development diversity   & inclusionperformance  & recognition well-being  programsin  , we focused on these key engaging leader behaviors  and actions globally in our nonmanufacturing locations: prioritize effort on the highest- value work, and doing good- enough work on the rest. adopt better ways of working that  allow us to pivot quickly and seek  and integrate external perspective regularly give and request performance- based feedback and use individual  development plans (idps) to track  toward development goalsengaging leader  behaviors apply  appropriate  effort foster   agility embrace  a learning  mindsetactionsengaging people in a culture of learning, growing and belongingaligning behaviors with updated values win together n   explicit strategic intent n   apply appropriate effort n   explicit understanding  of how to work n  develop all playerscontinuously  innovate n   embrace a  learning mindset n   encourage  productive discourse n   foster agilitychampion  belonging n   know and appreciate  each player n   create connected  teams n   model inclusionwe refreshed our engaging leader behaviors to align with our revised  company values and drive business results. engaging  leader  behaviorscompany  values food       planet       people general mills global responsibility      our approach: around the world, we  support our hometown communities  through employee volunteerism and local  community giving. our employees are  general mills’ greatest asset as they bring  our company’s purpose to life every  day. supporting local causes invigorates  our employees while strengthening  our hometown communities around  the globe. for the eighth consecutive  year, general mills was recognized on  the civic   list as one of america’s  most community-minded companies.  the award, presented by points  of light, measures a company’s  efforts on employee volunteerism,  grantmaking and social justice. advancing  racial equity we are proud of our company’s  longstanding work and deep commitment  to using our philanthropy to advance  racial equity. we work in focused ways  to use our resources and influence to  address and help close racial inequities  in student educational achievement  and food access. listed below are  examples of our efforts and impact. leading change: as a cofounder of the  minnesota business coalition for racial  equity (mbcre), we are partnering  collectively with the local business  sector to sharpen and accelerate actions  to improve conditions and advance equitable outcomes with and for black  minnesotans. the coalition’s approach  seeks systemic changes via public policy,  philanthropy, allyship and workplace  environments. since its inception in   , mbcre has helped to advance  advocacy and leverage more than   us$  million in member  philanthropy to support  black-led and equity- oriented solutions in  minnesota. learn more. integrating racial equity in philanthropy:   in  , we continued on our journey to  integrate a racial equity lens to ensure  our charitable giving helps support  organizations with missions, programs  and policies that advance racial equity.  we integrated new practices to measure  and review dimensions of organizational  diversity, equity and inclusion as part  of our grantmaking processes, and  are providing more flexible funding to  support the stability and longer-range  planning of grantee organizations. we  have grown the proportion of our giving  to support community-driven solutions,  including organizations led by and  predominately serving black, indigenous  and people of color in the twin cities  (minneapolis-st. paul, minnesota,  metro area). examples include: african  american leadership forum, appetite  for change, capi, centro tyrone  guzman, communidades latinos unidos  en servicio, the division of indian work, ed allies, northside achievement zone,  northside economic opportunity  network (neon), voices for racial  justice, youthprise and many others. our actions to advance  equity in education as part of general mills’ commitment to  racial equity,* we use our philanthropy  and brand reach to accelerate  opportunities to close gaps in academic  outcomes that disproportionately  impact students of color both in our  headquarters community of minneapolis,  minnesota and across the country. our progress: since  , we have  supported an ecosystem of nearly    nonprofit organizations that are working strengthening hometown  communities equity-focused   twin cities   charitable giving n   us$  million in charitable giving over   the last five years (fiscal  - ) to  nonprofits in the twin cities (greater  minneapolis and st. paul metro area), including  us$  million toward promoting equitable  food access and equity in k-  education. n    % of all twin cities nonprofits funded  in   are organizations focused  primarily on improving the lives of black,  indigenous and/or people of color, and  reflect that commitment in their mission,  goals, programming and actions. n    % of all twin cities nonprofits funded in    are led by black, indigenous and/or  people of color. *our commitment to racial equity also includes equitable food access and equity in representation.  years hosting dr. martin luther king jr.   holiday breakfast  in  , general mills developed and  hosted our first dr. martin luther king jr.   holiday breakfast. more than three  decades later, the event is attended  by thousands of people annually to  contemplate and celebrate the legacy  of dr. king. since that time, general  mills has provided us$ .  million   in charitable support to the united  negro college fund (uncf) and  its mlk legacy scholarship to help local students of color attend  colleges, including historically black  colleges and universities (hbcus).  food       planet       people general mills global responsibility      to bring about equity in education in  our home state of minnesota, including: n   box tops for education™ – to advance  equity in education and ensure all  kids can reach their full potential, box  tops is building on its longstanding  commitment to education by providing  additional support to teachers  and schools in need. in  , we  partnered with and provided grants*  to organizations that are working  toward greater equity in education  to help schools increase teacher  diversity and address racial inequities  in the classroom. these partners  include: black men teach, ed allies,  teach for america, tntp (formerly  the new teacher project), innocent  classroom, culturally responsive  school leadership institute and the  kids in need foundation. we also  enhanced the box tops for education  app to make it easier for participants  to find and support schools in need. box tops also teamed up with the  lebron james family foundation  in   to advance racial equity in  education. together, we highlighted  the many ways diverse educators  and school support staff can  improve students’ outcomes and  education — and surprised three  teachers with us$ ,  to help  repay student loans. learn more. n   improving equity in k-  education –   directing our grants to support  an ecosystem of education- transformation organizations that  are working to strengthen an array  of holistic solutions to advance equitable educational outcomes.  grantee examples include: northside  achievement zone,  ed allies,  great mn schools,  way to grow,  and voices for racial justice. n   college and career readiness –  supporting local solutions, including partners like uncf, achieve  minneapolis, bestprep and a new  partnership with pillsbury united  communities to support local  scholarships for equitable post- secondary and higher education  options (read more here). r we’ve committed to donating us$ ,  to black men teach to help increase the number  of black male elementary school teachers in minnesota classrooms; and to co-investing  us$ ,  with the minneapolis foundation as part of their reimagine education initiative to  support local nonprofit and education organizations to increase equity in twin cities schools.** *funded through box tops for education and general mills educational equity grantmaking program.   **box tops deployed the grants to the minneapolis foundation, its philanthropic partner, during fiscal  , and that funding was subsequently disbursed by the minneapolis foundation to selected nonprofit organizations in fiscal  .   twin cities includes the minneapolis and st. paul, minnesota, metropolitan area.in cumulative giving provided by  general mills and our foundation   to strengthen communities since   our foundation was established   in  .**$ .  billion  progress *in january  , we began shifting our  philanthropy away from the general mills  foundation and transitioning to corporate-funded  philanthropy. **this figure (in u.s. dollars) includes general mills  foundation grants, box tops for education™ giving,   corporate contributions and the company’s   global food donations.strengthening communities in charitable giving contributed   by general mills and our foundation*  worldwide in fiscal  , including  food and funds (u.s. dollars).$  million box tops for education™ the box tops for education digital program,  operated by general mills, provides funds for  participating u.s. schools, which can be used   for supplies and other priorities. box tops   impact includes: n   us$  million provided through box tops for  education since the program began in  .n   us$  million earned by u.s. schools  during the  -  school year. n   more than   million people have downloaded  and opened the box tops app. n    ,  u.s. schools benefiting from the  program during the  -  school year. food       planet       people general mills global responsibility      employee  volunteerism  and giving  our approach: we support our  hometown communities around  the world through local charitable  giving and employee volunteerism.  we encourage and empower our  employees to apply their skills,  expertise and passion to help  strengthen their communities. we are proud of our strong record  of employee volunteerism at general  mills. in  , approximately  % of  our employees volunteered in their  communities.* while we have not  yet returned to our pre-covid-   volunteerism rate of  %, we  continue to support and encourage  employees’ desire to get involved  in their communities. as a global  company, we offer volunteer events  throughout the year that employees can sign up for individually or as a  team. employees can also utilize our  internal wegive volunteerism platform  to search for opportunities to engage  in ways that are near and dear to their  heart and homes. finally, we pair our  community involvement with resources  to help our employees maximize their  community impact, such as training  sessions to prepare them to serve  on a nonprofit board and assistance  with volunteer event planning.skills-based  volunteerism  many of our employees apply their  professional skills and knowledge to  make a difference at local and societal  levels, including through our in-house  goodworks pro bono program and  our international nonprofit partner,  partners in food solutions: n   goodworks: through goodworks,  general mills employees lend their  since  , general mills india has been  providing scholarships and mentors to  help girls complete their education and  prepare for employment. the five-year  scholarships general mills provides make  it possible for promising students from  rural villages to pursue higher education.  in addition, through the sakhi mentorship  framework, general mills employees  provide the girls with career guidance,  personal development workshops and  english speaking courses as well as  corporate visits and experiences. in   ,   students received support through the educate to employ  program. previous graduates have gone  on to complete advanced academic  degrees and obtain professional jobs.educate to employ program supports   girls in india r students gather for mentoring sessions.we invested in   general mills   hometown communities with  local grants during fiscal  .  progress community impact charities worldwide received philanthropic  funding from general mills and our  foundation*, enabling them to serve and  strengthen communities.  r general mills employees support our communities with a focus on alleviating hunger and  taking care of the planet. learn more . juneteenth day of action we held our second-annual  juneteenth event at general mills  headquarters on june  ,  .  in celebration and recognition  of the day, we hosted on-site  learning and volunteering  activities as well as partnered  with a local nonprofit, northside  economic opportunity network  (neon), to elevate and  promote more than a dozen  local bipoc entrepreneurs in  an effort to raise awareness  and sales opportunities  for small businesses. r a few general mills and neon participants  from our our juneteenth day of action. *in january  , we began  shifting our philanthropy  away from the general  mills foundation and  transitioning to corporate- funded philanthropy. *global volunteer rate for calendar year   based on employee survey responses food       planet       peoplegeneral mills global responsibility      expertise in marketing, finance, sourcing  and supply chain management,  innovation, technology and quality  to help nonprofit organizations  overcome challenges and scale up  their impact. since the program began  in  , more than   volunteers  have completed over   projects. n   in  , the goodworks program  expanded its community focus to  provide targeted support for local  nonprofits and small businesses owned  by black, indigenous and people of  color. in  , goodworks teams in  minnesota provided support to four  small businesses owned by people  of color and nonprofit organizations  serving people of color in minneapolis  and st. paul, providing marketing,  financial planning and business  assistance for their projects. the small  businesses included cheesecake funk,  west indies soul food, blind havoc   and lovejoy’s bloody mary mix.  learn more about our impact.n  goodworks   participation: 	u       pro bono general  mills consultants 	u      hours contributed over     weeks 	u     % of pro bono clients said  the goodworks deliverables will  address their business challenge n   partners in food solutions: many  of our employees volunteer with  partners in food solutions (pfs), an  independent nonprofit organization  that links the technical and business  expertise of volunteer employees  from seven food companies with  high-potential food processors and  millers across africa. through the  program, nearly   general mills  employees globally have contributed  over  ,  hours to   different  clients across africa. by sharing  their diverse expertise, general  mills employees have assisted  entrepreneurs in growing their  businesses and supporting a supplier  base of more than  .  million farmers. employee giving employees in north america, europe,  australia and india participate in the  general mills gift matching program,  which offers up to a us$ ,  match  when they give to their favorite charities.  during fiscal  ,  ,  employees had  their gifts matched, providing support  for  ,  charitable organizations.disaster relief when disaster strikes in the communities  where we operate, general mills is  ready to contribute in ways that  provide relief and help communities  recover. through financial grants and  general mills food donations, we help  to ensure that our humanitarian and  disaster relief partners are resourced  and equipped to help communities  during their most urgent times of need. in fiscal  , we provided the   following support:  n   us$ ,  in support following  the invasion of ukraine, including  us$ ,  to european food banks  federation (feba) to provide food and  other humanitarian aid, and us$ ,   to international fund for animal  welfare (ifaw) for displaced pets. n   us$ ,  grant to ação da  cidadania in brazil to support  relief efforts from flooding near  petrópolis, which helped provide   ,  meals and support  ,   families (about  ,  people).  n   us$ ,  in grants to assist local  chapters of the spanish red cross and  the spanish food banks federation  to support relief efforts stemming  from the san adrian floods. n   us$ ,  grant to the australian  red cross to support relief efforts  associated with flooding in queensland  and new south wales in australia.  n   us$ ,  grant to the american  red cross to assist with community  recovery and relief efforts in the  wake of tennessee flooding near our  murfreesboro plant community.  r cheesecake funk founder and head  baker vanessa drews received support from  general mills goodworks volunteers.  progress disaster relief in financial grants (in u.s. dollars)  provided by our brands and the  general mills foundation during  fiscal   in response to natural  disasters in our communities, in  addition to food donations.$ ,  employees participated with  contributions through the general  mills employee charitable gift  matching program. , employee giving raised by employees for  ,   nonprofits with the general mills  match.*$  million *us$  million raised by employees with the  general mills match during fiscal  . general mills global responsibility     food       planet       people key manufacturing metrics    (wholly owned or controlled production facilities globally)* in thousands, except rate data           energy usage rate (gj/metric ton of product)  .   .   .   .   .  energy usage (gj)   ,     ,   ,   ,   ,  ghg emissions rate (metric tons co  e/ metric tons of product)** .   .   .   .   .  ghg emissions (scopes   and  )**   (metric tons co  e)          scope   (metric tons co  e)           scope   (metric tons co  e)**           water consumption rate (cubic meters/ metric ton of product) .   .   .   .   .  water consumption (cubic meters)  ,    ,   ,   ,   ,      groundwater (cubic meters)  ,    ,   ,   ,   ,      municipal (cubic meters)  ,    ,   ,   ,   ,  solid waste generation rate (metric tons/   metric ton of product)*** .   .   .   .   .  solid waste (metric tons)***           food waste (metric tons)****  .   .   .  zero waste to landfill % of total global facilities*****  %  %  %  %  % *data in this table is reported on a fiscal year basis and represent wholly owned or controlled production facilities globally. past fiscal years have not been adjusted for acquisitions or divestitures. some data are restated compared to reporting  in prior years to reflect improvements in data gathering and tracking methodologies. beginning in  , data reflects the  acquisition of blue buffalo pet products, inc., completed in april  . **scope   ghg emissions data were calculated using the location-based method from  -  and the market-based  method starting in  . these data were externally verified for  -  by bureau veritas, and for  -  by apex  companies, llc. ***solid waste data is from production and excludes waste associated with construction as well as non-production activities  such as new product trials. **** general mills defines food waste following the food loss & waste protocol standard and the baseline year for our goal  reduction is fiscal   (not reported for earlier years). ****these facilities sent no waste to landfill or incineration without energy recovery. data includes facilities that were operating  at the end of the relevant fiscal year. locationenergy attribute  certificates (gj)**total   electricity use% renewable  electricity***type united states and  canada , ,   , ,   % recs (vppa) europe  ,   ,   % guarantee of origin all other geographies    ,   % total general mills  , ,   , ,   % *scope includes all globally owned general mills facilities (manufacturing, r&d, offices, warehouses, hd shops, and cake kitchens). **certificates to prove renewable energy consumption. one ( ) eac represents one ( ) mwh of renewable electricity generated. ***aligned with re  definition; total energy attribute certificates/total electricity use   renewable electricity, fiscal  *sbti target boundary ghg protocol fiscal   fiscal   fiscal   fiscal   scope    ,   ,   ,   ,  scope   (market-based)  ,   ,   ,   ,  scope    , ,   , ,   , ,   , ,  total  , ,   , ,   , ,   , ,  *see below for ghg calculation methodology and definitions. scope   and   totals differ from the key manufacturing metrics  to the left as the data in this table include those locations as well as other wholly owned or controlled facilities globally (such as  offices and häagen-dazs shops) as well as fleet vehicles.general mills ghg emissions by scope   (metric tons co  e)* ghg calculation methodology we work with quantis to calculate our global ghg emissions footprint each fiscal year, following the  guidelines of the ghg protocol corporate accounting and reporting standard. this footprint covers  our complete value chain. for our   science-based target, we define our emissions boundaries in  alignment with the science-based target initiative (sbti): scope  : direct greenhouse (ghg) emissions that occur from sources that are controlled or owned by  an organization (e.g., emissions associated with fuel combustion in boilers, furnaces, vehicles). general  mills uses operational control to categorize those emissions within its organizational boundary. scope  : indirect ghg emissions associated with the purchase of electricity, steam, heat or cooling.  general mills uses operational control to categorize those emissions within its organizational boundary.  general mills uses the market-based methodology for calculation of our scope   emissions, which  considers any contractual instruments that may be used in competitive energy markets, such as green  tariffs, renewable certificates, or ppas. scope  : indirect ghg emissions occurring from assets not owned or controlled by the reporting  organization, but that the organization indirectly impacts in its value chain. scope   emissions include  all sources not within an organization’s scope   and   boundary, as outlined by the ghg protocol.  general mills uses operational control to categorize those emissions within its organizational boundary.  consistent with sbti guidelines, our targets focus on the categories of ghg emissions that are the  most impactful and actionable for general mills, and exclude emissions such as low-volume ingredients,  capital goods, employee commuting, franchises, downstream warehouse and storage at retail,  consumer trips to store, and end of life (consumer food waste). scope  ,   and   data in the above table were externally verified by apex companies, llc, and our  verification letter can be found on our website . we work to continually update our methodology,  visibility and accuracy, and update results as appropriate each year. it is typical for there to be some  year-over-year variation in footprint hotspots and for baseline footprints to change as a result of  updates. for fiscal  , there were two methodological updates that had a material impact on the  footprint. in shipping, the gallon data was replaced with tonne-kilometer data resulting in an increase  in the shipping portion of the footprint, though with increased confidence in the accuracy. in home  cooking, where the number of product units sold is used to calculate impact, previous data collection  methodology was not accounting for variation in package sizes. for instance, one package may  include   boxes of product, translating to ~  different instances of cooking, which is now reflected.  the new calculation has increased the impact of home cooking on the overall footprint, but is a more  accurate representation of reality. environmental data summary appendix general mills global responsibility     global reporting initiative index disclosure location/comments gri  : general disclosures    -  organizational details    -k, introduction  -  entities included in the organization’s  sustainability reportingintroduction  -  reporting period, frequency and contact point introduction  -  restatements of information introduction, appendix —   environmental data summary  -  external assurance introduction  -  activities, value chain and other  business relationshipsintroduction, food,  planet, people  -  employees people  -  workers who are not employees people  -  governance structure and composition   proxy statement,  introduction  -  nomination and selection of the  highest governance body  proxy statement  -  chair of the highest governance body   proxy statement  -  role of the highest governance body in  overseeing the management of impacts  proxy statement,  introduction  -  delegation of responsibility  for managing impacts  proxy statement  -  role of the highest governance body in   sustainability reporting  proxy statement,  introduction  -  conflicts of interest   proxy statement  -  communication of critical concerns   proxy statement  -  collective knowledge of the highest   governance body  proxy statement  -  evaluation of the performance of the highest   governance body  proxy statement  -  remuneration policies   proxy statement  -  process to determine remuneration   proxy statement  -  annual total compensation ratio   proxy statement  -  statement on sustainable development strategy planetstatement of use general mills has reported the information cited in this gri content index for the fiscal   period with reference to the gri standards. gri   used gri  : foundation   disclosure location/comments gri  : general disclosures   (cont.)  -  policy commitments planet  -  embedding policy commitments introduction, planet  -  processes to remediate negative impacts planet  -  mechanisms for seeking advice  and raising concernspeople  -  compliance with laws and regulations responsible sourcing,  supplier code of conduct,    proxy statement  -  membership associations introduction, planet  -  approach to stakeholder engagement introduction, planet  -  collective bargaining agreements approximately  % of u.s.  production employees  are covered by cbas. gri  : material topics    -  process to determine material topics introduction  -  list of material topics introduction  -  management of material topics introduction, food,  planet, people gri  : economic performance    -  direct economic value generated and distributed introduction, food, people  -  financial implications and other risks and   opportunities due to climate changeplanet, cdp — climate  change disclosure  -  defined benefit plan obligations and other   retirement plans   -k  gri  : indirect economic impacts    -  infrastructure investments and  services supportedintroduction, food,  planet, people  -  significant indirect economic impacts introduction, food,  planet, people general mills global responsibility     global reporting initiative index (cont.) disclosure location/comments gri  : anti-corruption    -  operations assessed for risks related   to corruptionpeople  -  communication and training about   anti-corruption policies and procedurespeople gri  : materials    -  recycled input materials used planet  -  reclaimed products and their   packaging materialsplanet gri  : energy    -  energy consumption within   the organizationplanet, appendix —   environmental data summary  -  energy intensity planet, appendix —   environmental data summary  -  reduction of energy consumption planet gri  : water and effluents    -  interactions with water as a shared resource water stewardship  -  management of water discharge-   related impactswater stewardship  -  water withdrawal cdp-water security  disclosures  -  water consumption appendix-environmental  data summary, cdp-water  security disclosure gri  : biodiversity    -  significant impacts of activities, products and   services on biodiversityplanet  -  habitats protected or restored planet gri  : emissions    -  direct (scope  ) ghg emissions planet, appendix —   environmental data summary  -  energy indirect (scope  ) ghg emissions planet, appendix —   environmental data summarydisclosure location/comments gri  : emissions   (cont.)  -  other indirect (scope  ) ghg emissions planet, cdp — climate  change disclosure  -  ghg emissions intensity planet, appendix —   environmental data summary  -  reduction of ghg emissions planet   -  emissions of ozone-depleting  substances (ods)ozone-depleting substances  (ods) are most commonly  used in small quantities for  closed-loop refrigeration  systems and occasional  fumigation activities. ods  emissions are strictly regulated.  -  nitrogen oxides (nox), sulfur oxides (sox),  and other significant air emissionsair emissions primarily  include particulate matter  and organic compounds  from ingredient handling,  cooking and drying, as well as  emissions associated with fuel  combustion. our production  facilities are governed by  applicable regulations as  well as our compliance  management program. gri  : waste    -  waste generation and significant waste-   related impactsplanet  -  management of significant waste-   related impactsplanet  -  waste generated appendix — environmental  data summary  -  waste diverted from disposal planet  -  waste directed to disposal planet gri  : supplier environmental assessment    -  new suppliers that were screened using   environmental criteriasupplier code of conduct general mills global responsibility     global reporting initiative index (cont.) disclosure location/comments gri  : employment    -  benefits provided to full-time employees   that are not provided to temporary or   part-time employeespeople  -  parental leave people gri  : occupational health and safety    -  occupational health and safety   management systempeople  -  hazard identification, risk assessment, and  incident investigationpeople  -  occupational health services people  -  worker training on occupational health   and safetypeople  -  promotion of worker health people  -  prevention and mitigation of occupational  health and safety impacts directly linked by  business relationshipspeople  -  workers covered by an occupational health and  safety management systempeople  -  work-related injuries people gri  : training and education    -  average hours of training per year   per employeepeople  -  programs for upgrading employee skills and  transition assistance programspeople  -  percentage of employees receiving regular  performance and career development reviewspeople gri  : diversity and equal opportunity    -  diversity of governance bodies and employees people,   proxy statement gri  : freedom of association and collective bargaining    -  operations and suppliers in which the right  to freedom of association and collective  bargaining may be at riskplanet disclosure location/comments gri  : child labor    -  operations and suppliers at significant risk for  incidents of child laborplanet gri  : forced or compulsory labor    -  operations and suppliers at significant risk for  incidents of forced or compulsory laborplanet gri  : local communities    -  operations with local community  engagement, impact assessments, and  development programsplanet  -  operations with significant actual   and potential negative impacts on   local communitiespeople gri  : supplier social assessment    -  new suppliers that were screened using   social criteriaresponsible sourcing,  supplier  code of conduct  -  negative social impacts in the supply chain  and actions takenplanet gri  : public policy    -  political contributions civic involvement, introduction gri  : customer health and safety    -  assessment of the health and safety impacts  of product and service categoriesfood, people  -  incidents of noncompliance concerning   the health and safety impacts of products   and servicesfood  gri  : marketing and labeling    -  requirements for product and service  information and labelingfood   -  incidents of noncompliance concerning  product and service information and labelingfood general mills global responsibility     united nations global compact principles principle information in report human rights principle  : businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and ethics and compliance  human rights supplier code of conduct principle  : make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ethics and compliance  human rights labor principle  : businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to  collective bargaining;human rights supplier code of conduct  principle  : the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; human rights supplier code of conduct  principle  : the effective abolition of child labor; and human rights supplier code of conduct principle  : the elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. ethics and compliance  diversity, inclusion and belonging supplier code of conduct environment principle  : businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; climate change  regenerative agriculture  water stewardship  principle  : undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and climate change  regenerative agriculture  responsible sourcing  sustainable operations water stewardship  principle  : encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. climate change  regenerative agriculture  sustainable operations anti-corruption principle  : businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery supplier code of conduct  employee code of conduct general mills global responsibility     pillar recommended disclosures related content reference governance disclose the organization’s  governance around  climate-related risks and  opportunitiesa)  describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities   cdp climate change report   proxy report   global responsibility reportc . a, c . b pages  -  page   b)  describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate- related risks and opportunities  cdp climate change report c . b, c . , c . a strategy disclose the actual and  potential impacts of  climate-related risks and  opportunities a)  describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization  has identified over the short, medium, and long term  cdp climate change report c . , c .  b)  describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the  organization’s businessess, strategy, and financial planning  cdp climate change report c . , c .  c)  describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into  consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a  °c   or lower scenario  cdp climate change report c . , c .  risk management disclose how the  organization identifies,  assesses, and manages  climate-related risksa)   describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing   climate-related risks  cdp climate change report c . , c .  b)  describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks   cdp climate change report   global responsibility reportc . , c .  pages  -  c)  describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing  climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall   risk management  cdp climate change report c . , c .  metrics and targets disclose the metrics and  targets used to assess   and manage relevant  climate-related risks   and opportunities a)  disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess   climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy   and risk management process  cdp climate change report c  b)  disclose scope  , scope  , and, if appropriate, scope   greenhouse   gas (ghg) emissions and the related risks  cdp climate change report   global responsibility reportc  page   c)  describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate- related risks and opportunities and performance against targets  cdp climate change report   global responsibility reportc . , c .  page   task force on climate-related financial disclosures (tcfd) index general mills global responsibility     the sustainability accounting standards board (sasb) is an independent standards-setting organization that promotes disclosure of material sustainability information to meet investor  needs. this table references the standard for the processed foods industry as defined by sasb’s sustainable industry classification system (sics) and identifies how general mills  addresses each topic. note that some responses may not be fully aligned with sasb’s definition, but represent the content most closely aligned with that indicator. topic sasb indicator code general mills response energy management fb-pf- a.  total energy usage in fy  for our owned production facilities was  , ,  gigajoules (gj);  % renewable electricity sourced for  our global operations. see environmental data summary for details. water management fb-pf- a.  total water consumption in fy  in our owned production facilities was  , ,  cubic meters. approximately  % of our water  withdrawals are from water-stressed areas. see cdp water for details. fb-pf- a.  no incidents related to water quality and/or quality permits, standards or regulations in fy . fb-pf- a.  water issues are local, so we take a risk-based approach to address risks in priority watersheds across our global supply chain. our  goal is to champion the regeneration of water resources in priority watersheds. see water stewardship and cdp water for details. food safety fb-pf- a.   % of general mills owned production facilities were global food safety initiative (gfsi) certified in fy ; there were zero critical  nonconformances. fb-pf- a.   % of our global co-production sites,  % of our global ingredient suppliers and  % of our north american ingredient vendor sites  were gfsi certified in fy . fb-pf- a.  no food safety violations were received in fy . fb-pf- a.  we conducted   very small voluntary product recalls globally in fy .  health and nutrition fb-pf- a.  in fy ,  % of general mills’ global volume met our nutrition-forward criteria. fb-pf- a.  in fy , we launched a new global health reporting system focused on nutrition-forward foods that leverages established, transparent  nutrition criteria grounded in regulations and dietary guidance and measures across our global portfolio. see nutrition for details. product labeling  and marketingfb-pf- a.  we disclose the presence of bioengineered ingredients (gmos) on our u.s. packages under the national bioengineered food  disclosure standard for fda and usda regulated products. all our applicable product labels are in compliance with the standard.   we have also voluntarily labeled all products that contain highly refined bioengineered ingredients. fb-pf- a.  general mills fully complies with all requirements of cfbai and locally applicable programs. we are not aware of any instance of  noncompliance by general mills in the past several years, and cfbai has confirmed this in its reports. packaging lifecycle  managementfb-pf- a.  in fy ,  % of the packaging in our north america retail and foodservice operating segments was recyclable (by weight). fb-pf- a.  we continually work to reduce the environmental impact of packaging by increasing use of recycled and recyclable materials,  innovating to make our materials better, and leading through external collaboration. see packaging for details. environmental and  social impacts  of ingredient  supply chainfb-pf- a.  in fy , we achieved our goal to sustainably source our   priority ingredients (representing approximately  % of our annual raw  material purchases). fb-pf- a.  we use responsible sourcing audits for our own operations, our co-packers and our suppliers. in fy ,   sites were audited in     countries. see responsible sourcing for additional details. ingredient sourcing fb-pf- a.  our footprint consists of approximately   key ingredient and manufacturing watersheds that are the most critical for operations.   of those,   are prioritized as high risk. see water stewardship and cdp water for details. fb-pf- a.  in fy , we achieved our goal to sustainably source   priority ingredients: cocoa, vanilla, oats, u.s sugar beets, u.s. wheat, u.s. corn  (dry milled), u.s dairy (raw fluid milk), fiber packaging, sugarcane and palm oil. we have now shifted our focus to programs that  regenerate the planet and create positive outcomes for people. see planet for details.sustainability accounting standards board reference table general mills global responsibility       esg report the insidegoodness  the hershey company   esg reporthershey's purpose is to make more moments  of goodness for our consumers today and for  generations to come. integral to achieving that is our  global sustainability strategy: our shared goodness  promise. on these pages we share how sustainability  is being woven into the fabric of our operations as we  grow our business to delight more consumers. more than ever, we are engaging and empowering  the remarkable people who make and sell our  brands. we are working collaboratively with multiple  stakeholders to improve the lives of farmers that grow  the ingredients that go into our products. we are working to reduce our impact on the planet  and create a more sustainable environment. we are  investing in youth and our communities to create a  stronger future for ourselves and our world.it’s what’s countsinside that   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report  the hershey company   esg reporttable of  contents   making good for our future   a message from our ceo   a message from our cso   double materiality   our esg approach and priorities   progress towards our priority goals   awards and recognition   our company   our esg governance   a bold strategy for growth   satisfying consumer needs   excellence in food safety   marketing responsibly   celebrating women and youth through our brands   our progress   cocoa   cocoa for good   goodness inside starts with accountability   cocoa partners   improving income resiliency and livelihoods   eliminating child labor   improving children’s well-being   protecting the environment    the power of cocoalink   our progress  responsible sourcing and human rights    human rights across our value chain   maintaining focus on our most salient human rights   taking action on human rights   responsible recruitment and employment   living wage and income   responsible sourcing   how we responsibly source goods and services   sourcing our priority ingredients and materials   our progress   environment   acting on climate change   reducing ghg emissions in our operations   reducing emissions in our value chain   managing climate risk   making progress on packaging   water: a precious resource   water stewardship in our supply chain   the power — and importance — of biodiversity   innovating waste solutions   environmental partnerships   employees acting for change   our progress  our people   lead today, create tomorrow   safety first   employee well-being and development   investing in development to create tomorrow   dei is good business   more pathways to join   more pathways to reach out   more pathways to grow   our progress   y outh   providing education and opportunity   the heartwarming project   our progress   community   working together for stronger communities   creating a world of good   tackling hunger head on   giving back goodness   our progress   appendices   about this report   ey limited assurance statement  	quantis	 verification	letter  	material	issues	definitions  	salient	human	rights	issues	definitions    contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report making good  for our future    contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report  goodness from  the  inside,  out a message from  our ceoour esg goals go hand in hand with our business  transformation. we can’t accomplish one without the  other. at each step of our journey, we are working to make  and deliver the products people love in a responsible and  sustainable way. as we live our purpose of making more  moments of goodness, we are investing to create a more  sustainable cocoa supply. we’ve embarked on a multiyear  supply chain transformation and infrastructure expansion.  we’re instilling our food safety culture, implementing  socially responsible and sustainable environmental  practices across our operations, and taking concrete  action to reduce our carbon emissions. we’re delivering  more snacks and better-for-you products that expand  choice for our consumers and opportunities to grow our  business. and, we’re embracing the strength that comes  from	diversity,	finding	 ways	to	include	more	people	from	 more backgrounds in ways that help our business, them and  their communities	thrive.	 the approach works. in hazleton, pennsylvania, our  manufacturing capabilities needed to expand while we  were simultaneously faced with labor shortages. the plant is  now	our	first	fully 	bilingual	facility,	employing	 	spanish- speaking employees from the community, supporting the  local economy and families. “say hola” is a living example of  the opportunity that exists when business and communities  come together to embrace business need and social equity.  you will see other examples of how we are working to drive  positive and lasting change throughout this report.facing down challenges we	are	proud	of	our 	progress	in	 	but	continue	to	 face tough issues. the scope and scale of social and  environmental challenges facing hershey and the  communities we touch are daunting. we continue to  make headway on the incredible complexities around  poverty, child labor and deforestation in our cocoa growing  communities, while working diligently on what still needs to  be done. extreme weather and natural resource constraints  disrupt our operations and stressed our supply chain. and  reducing plastic and packaging, conserving water and  natural resources, and reversing biodiversity loss require  concerted collaborative action. in all these things, we  remain	firmly 	committed	to	our 	efforts	and	partnerships	 to ensure	 we	continue	to	make	meaningful	progress	 towards our 	goals. while this road is not easy, we are proudly walking it  with caring people doing great work. for us, esg is not  a program; it’s a way of doing business. as our company  transforms into a leading snacking powerhouse, i consider  the work detailed in this report as the steady and strong  foundation we need to take our company to the next level.  anything — and everything — is possible when passion and  excellence	combine	to	make	a	difference. michele buck   chairman, president and ceo  the hershey companyhere at hershey, we have an ambitious goal to become a  leading snacking powerhouse as we delight consumers  with our sweet and salty portfolio. embedded in that goal —  and in everything we do — is a robust environmental, social  and	governance	(esg)	agenda	that	focuses	our 	efforts	 to deliver long-term business resilience and success and  create positive impact for people and the planet. this report  describes the ways our people seamlessly team across  functions and work with courage and agility in a complex  world and dynamic marketplace to make progress against  our goals. sustainable transformation and growth as a company, we have grown exponentially over the last  five	years.	we	are	proud	to	have	three	of	the	six 	fastest- growing u.s. snack brands in our portfolio and our global  footprint is expanding rapidly. as our business has grown,  so has our commitment to making positive change on  the material issues for our business and stakeholders. as  a result, we are more fully integrating our esg priorities  into every 	part	of	our 	business.   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report  a message from  our cso passion and pride. making more moments of goodness  and	making	a	difference.	here	at	hershey 	these	descriptors	 paint the picture of what drives our business and are  hallmarks of our culture of excellence and togetherness.  as	the	company’s	first	chief	sustainability 	officer,	i	am	 inspired and motivated by the duality of this culture and  what we can achieve when we focus on common goals. i  am driven by our opportunity to deliver successful business  performance and at the same time create positive impact  for individuals, communities and environments that need  it most. in	 	we	reaffirmed	hershey’s	priorities	that	are	 important for our long-term business resilience and are  where we can have the greatest impact. we remain focused  on our operating priorities that include cocoa sustainability,  responsible sourcing and human rights, environment, and  people. and we remain committed to improving the lives  of youth and strengthening communities, both integral to  who	we	are	and	exemplified	in	our 	unique	relationship	 with	 milton hershey school. throughout this report, we share our approaches, key  initiatives, partnerships and progress to challenging issues. we	continued	to	progress	towards	our 	 	cocoa	goals	 with enhanced sourcing visibility and expansion of child  labor monitoring and remediation systems to cover more  children who may be at risk. our plans and programs, such  as	farmer 	premiums	for 	verified	cocoa,	 village	savings	and	 loan associations and our new income accelerator are  informed by stakeholder outreach and are designed to  improve farmers’ livelihoods and reduce poverty, a root  cause of child labor in cocoa. we also share recent stories of impact as well as some of  the obstacles we are encountering as we go about our  work. as our business continues to accelerate and grow,  our reported progress in ghg emissions reductions is  not linear. as our portfolio expands, we are excited about  bringing new manufacturing capabilities into the hershey  network and believe we will be strong stewards of these  facilities.	 we	remain	confident	in	our 	ability	to	achieve	our 	 science-based targets as we further integrate our carbon  reduction strategies across our operations.  as you review our report, we welcome your insight and  feedback as we continue to learn and grow on this journey  to create shared value for all. this collaborative approach  and	our	continued	commitment	to	affect	change	 will	propel	 us forward and make the impact we are all seeking. leigh horner  chief	sustainability 	officer   the hershey companymilton hershey school one of our founder’s most  compelling contributions to the  hershey community was the  hershey industrial school for  orphaned boys. founded by milton  and his wife catherine, they built  the school with the intention  of providing young boys with a  productive	and	fulfilling	life.	now 	 named milton hershey school, this  institution fosters the academic  and	social	potential	of	over 	 , 	 boys and girls a year, providing  them with the skills and resources  for success in all areas of life. prior  to his death, milton hershey left  the entirety of his fortune with the  school to ensure its continued  success. the company’s special  relationship with the school  means that our business success  directly benefits	the	school	and	 students’ lives. progress we are proud of   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report using insights from our double  materiality assessment, we are directing  our efforts and resources to where we  can have the greatest impact for our  business, the planet and people. hershey aligns to best-in-class practices when it comes  to evaluating strategy and prioritizing how we take action  on issues that matter most to our stakeholders. the esg  landscape is constantly evolving in parallel to the continued  growth of our business. as such, we regularly reassess our  esg strategy and priorities embedded across the enterprise  to ensure we’re focused on the right issues to create lasting  change for the future.  in	 ,	 we	conducted	an	inaugural	double	materiality 	 assessment	to	identify 	and	rank 	the	esg	issues	that	affect	 us	financially,	as	 well	as	to	understand	those	areas	and	 ways	 in	which	our 	operations	affect	the	 world.	building	on	our 	 previous	materiality 	assessment,	this	 work	confirmed	 we	 are focused	on	the	right	esg	issues	for 	our	business.	 double materiality assessment process we began by building an extensive list of esg issues  considering: • hershey’s potential external impacts on the economy,  environment and society • the	potential	financial	impacts	of	these	topics	on	our 	 business and operations hershey’s double materiality methodology included layers  of analysis incorporating current global industry trends,  regulations and legislation, standards and frameworks  such as the global reporting initiative (gri) universal  standards, peer benchmarking and our prior materiality  assessment results. we used these analyses to distill the  universe of potential esg issues down to a narrower list  of  	issues.	double  materiality we solicited feedback from key internal and external  stakeholders	on	the	final	list	of	 	issues	and	subtopics	 through surveys and interviews. the results from these  stakeholders, coupled with the future-fit business  benchmark risk assessment tool, allowed us to identify,  prioritize	and	rank 	our	 	most	material	issues.	 these	 	 issues	will	drive	our 	esg	and	business	strategy 	in	 	and	 beyond. all of the material issues represented to the right,  remain a core part of our strategy and focus. they are where  we will place the greatest focus as we continue to identify  key risks, opportunities and emerging issues that will inform  our shared goodness promise.  some	of	hershey’s	 	material	issues	are	fundamental	 expectations and a non-negotiable component of being  a	responsible	corporate	citizen	(e.g., data	protection	and	 cybersecurity, ethics and compliance, workplace health and  safety, and food safety and quality, to name a few) while  others are emerging esg trends requiring even greater  time and attention as we continue to develop our long- term business	strategy 	(e.g.,	traceability,	soil	health). →for a full list of definitions for each of our material issues, see pages   -  of this report. stakeholder engagement our relationships and ongoing dialogue with stakeholders  are an important part of our esg commitment. we engage  with stakeholders to advance our global sustainability  strategy and make progress toward our goals as we seek  to deliver 	on	our	shared	goodness	promise.	 we engage in continuous dialogue throughout the year  with	government	officials,	non-governmental	organizations	 (ngos), customers, investors and other stakeholders to  discuss our esg performance. we also obtain regular  feedback from our employees through our business  resource groups (brgs), green teams, surveys and ad  hoc through direct engagement with the company’s global  sustainability team. these interactions inform our decision  making and help us create powerful collaborations to  address global challenges and systemic issues. materiality matrix significantsignificant majormajor   environmental      social      governanceoutward impactfinancial impactpackaging and end-of-life energy managment farmer livelihoods animal welfareadvocacy and  lobbyingnutrition and health traceability*business  operations and   supply chain  resilience board and   executive oversight*food safety and quality ethics and compliance responsible marketing and labelling data protection and cyber securitysupporting communitieslabor relationsresponsible sourcing diversity, equity &  inclusion (dei)human rights  (supply chain) workplace   health and   safetyemployee attraction, retention  and developmentchild labor water use deforestation waste management soil health*ghg emissions and  climate change biodiversity *new	material	issue	in	    the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report sdgs as a global business, our work touches upon many  of the objectives of the united nations sustainable  development goals (sdgs) from cultivating resilient  communities along our global supply chain and thoughtfully managing our environmental impacts to  delivering sustainably produced snacks and leaving a  legacy of kindness in our communities.  hershey’s esg priorities align with and contribute  to the advancement of the following sdgs: building a sustainable future is a shared responsibility. we  have	re-affirmed	our 	most	material	issues	 which	inform	 and shape our long-term business strategy while positively  impacting the people, planet and society around us. our  four operating priorities and two foundational priorities  (shown at right) remain the same. we continue to embed  esg considerations into the fabric of our organization  through our policies, strategies and processes. addressing  these priorities is more than doing what’s right — it’s taking  imperative action so that our organization can thrive amid  growing societal and environmental challenges.  esg issues are interconnected while we reference our esg priorities and esg material  issues as standalone topics throughout this report, our  work on	each	is	naturally 	interconnected.our esg approach and priorities when we make progress towards our environmental  goals, we simultaneously contribute positively to nature  and biodiversity, which goes hand in hand with our  work	in	procurement	and	responsible	sourcing. as	 we	 make progress within our cocoa for good strategy, we  directly impact farmers and support rural livelihoods and  community development, which promotes respect and  advancement for human rights, ultimately contributing to  a more	resilient	future	for 	our	planet	and	people.	 systems thinking and an embedded esg approach are  critical to success. at hershey this means we leverage our  size and scale as we embrace interconnected systems  with the intent to achieve the change needed for future  generations to thrive.cocoa creating thriving communities  and environments behind our  most essential ingredient. responsible sourcing and  human rights using robust due diligence and  leading standards to protect  people across our value chain. environment enhancing our operations to meet  high-impact climate, waste and  packaging goals. our people creating more ways for more  people to be themselves and  thrive.yo u t h giving youth the tools to create  compassionate, successful and  connected futures. community actively	making	a	difference	 where we live and work.operating priorities foundational priorities   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report priority area priority goals target progress (as of dec.  ,  ) status notes cocoa %	independently 	verified	cocoa    % achieved —  %	sourcing	 visibility	of	hershey’s	cocoa	 volume	in	côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana	    % on track —  %	of	farmers	producing	hershey’s	cocoa	 volume	in	côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana	are	polygon	 mapped by our suppliers to improve traceability and monitor deforestation   % on track    %	of	farmers	producing	hershey’s	cocoa	 volume	in	côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana	are	covered	 by child labor monitoring and remediation systems (clmrs) to prevent, monitor and  remediate child labor   % on track   responsible  sourcing and  human rights %	of	priority 	ingredients	and	materials	to	be	responsibly 	and	sustainably 	sourced	(by 	volume)    % on track    %	of	in	scope	supplier 	sites	meet	hershey’s	responsible	sourcing	supplier 	program	 requirements   % on track — environment %	absolute	reduction	in	scope	 	and	 	ghg	emissions	against	a	 	baseline    % on track    %	absolute	reduction	in	scope	 	ghg	emissions	against	a	 	baseline    % in progress    %	of	plastic	packaging	to	be	recyclable,	reusable	or 	compostable    % on track    	million	pounds	of	packaging	to	be	eliminated   on track   our peopleachieve pay equity for similar job categories across our global salaried employees   in  , we maintained fair and equitable pay  achievements, including  :  aggregate people  of color pay equity for salaried employees in the  united states ( ) and  :  aggregate gender  pay ( ).on track —  – %	 women	representation	across	all	employees	globally    . % achieved —  – %	people	of	color 	(poc)	representation	across	u.s.	employees    . % on track    %	hazard	reduction	for 	job	functions	 with	ergonomic	risks	through	process	improvements    . % on track — yo u t h 	million	children	globally 	supported	through	education,	nutrition,	and	social	and	emotional	 well-being   on track    , 	children	take	heartwarming	actions	and	impact	their 	communities   achieved   community$ 	million	donated	in	cash	and	products	to	community 	partners	focused	on	education,	 community economic development, inclusive communities and health and human services  where we live and work  on track  	beginning	in	 ,	to	be	considered	polygon	 mapped, all farm plots managed by the  farmer	must	be	mapped,	as	defined	by 	the	 world cocoa foundation. previously, a  farmer was considered polygon mapped if at  least one plot of land was mapped.   this refers to households covered by  clmrs.  	this result represents the percentage by  volume	of	hershey’s	five	priority 	ingredients,	 which	met	our 	definition	of	responsibly 	and	 sustainably 	sourced	in	 .	 this	definition	 varies by ingredient and is subject to change  as hershey’s responsible sourcing programs  evolve. more information may be found  in the responsible sourcing ingredient  commitments and progress table on page   .  	hershey's ghg emissions reduction goal  for	 	is	based	on	scope	 	and	scope	  	(market-based).	our 	 	scope	 	and	 scope   data received limited assurance by  ey.  	our	 	scope	 	data	is	 verified	by 	 quantis.		in	 ,	 we	will	be	undertaking	a	 rebaselining	for 	our	scope	 	emissions.   the progress for this commitment currently  represents hershey north american  produced products only (e.g., u.s., canada,  monterrey (mexico), and all export items  from these countries) that are recyclable.  	in	 ,	we	expanded	our 	commitment	to	 eliminate	an	additional	 	million	pounds	 of	packaging	by 	 .	results	represent	 cumulative packaging waste eliminated  ( - ).   poc refers to black, african american,  hispanic/latino,	 asian/asian	pacific	 islander,	hawaiian	pacific	islander 	and	those	 who identify as two or more races.   more than  .  million children were  supported,	cumulatively 	from	january	 ,	  	to	december 	 ,	 .  	more	than	 , 	 children	 took	action	and	 impacted their communities, cumulatively  from	january	 ,	 	to	december 	 ,	 .  	hershey	donated	nearly 	$ . 	million	in	cash	 and	products	cumulatively 	from	january	 ,	  	to	december 	 ,	 . %  %  %  %  %  %  %  %  . m lbs  . %  . %  . %  . m children $ . m ,  children %progress towards  our priority goals    the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report awards and recognition united statesglobal mexico brazil india canada asia no.   our company our values make hershey a special place to work.  they are part of the legacy that guides our actions  today and powers our goals for the future. operating as an ethical company is fundamental to building  trust with our stakeholders. it is consistent with our focus  on creating value for all stakeholders and transforming  our business into a leading snacking powerhouse. we are  guided by a suite of carefully crafted policies and processes,  developed to ensure that we operate responsibly and  remain prepared, resilient and competitive. as our company  innovates to meet the needs of confection and salty snack  lovers, we continue to evolve and strengthen our approach  to transparency and disclosure, adopting leading standards  to ensure that hershey keeps pace. our decisions regarding  business strategy, operations and resource allocation are  guided by our purpose and are rooted in our values. our values togetherness making a difference integrity excellence    contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report our esg governance audit committee: reviews the company’s public  reporting with	respect	to	esg	matters	 within	the	 audit	 committee’s purview. compensation and human capital committee:  oversees consideration of esg matters in executive  compensation program; oversees human capital  management practices, including talent management,  dei and	pay 	equity. finance and risk management committee: reviews  and oversees policies and procedures with respect to  human rights, environmental stewardship and responsible  sourcing/commodities practices within the company’s  supply chain. governance committee: oversees governance of  the company’s esg policies and programs, including  establishment of targets, standards and other metrics used  to measure and track esg performance and progress. management and esg leaders provide deep dives  on	esg issues	for 	the	full	board	at	least	once	a	 year,	 with	relevant committee	updates	occurring	frequently 	 throughout	the year.	 esg topics are regularly evaluated as part of our enterprise  risk management (erm) review process and include  human rights and environmental issues. esg is a standalone  key business risk within our broader enterprise risk universe,  alongside human capital, and climate & environment.as we integrate our esg approach  more deeply into our business strategy  and operations, we’ve expanded the  oversight and execution of our esg  management. we utilize a multi-level  operating structure to ensure we are  aligned on the most important issues  facing the company and are allocating  resources to drive progress within our  shared goodness promise. the governance of hershey’s environmental, social and  governance (esg) program is structured to drive strategic  alignment and operational execution against our priorities.  pursuant to our corporate governance guidelines,  ultimate responsibility for our esg and sustainability  governance oversight rests with the the board of directors,  which oversees all esg matters, including our esg  strategies, priorities, progress, risks and opportunities. oversight	of	specific	esg	responsibilities	and	reporting	 requirements are assigned to relevant board committees,  as stated in their respective charters. board committees  conduct	regular 	in-depth	reviews	of	significant	esg	issues	 to help carry out these responsibilities.esg management accountability for esg and sustainability resides with  our	chief	executive	officer,	 with	shared	responsibility 	 across the management team and program strategy and  operations	led	by 	our	chief	sustainability 	officer. executive team our	ceo	and	her 	direct	reports	conduct	monthly 	reviews of	 our shared goodness promise strategy, data and progress  against our commitments and targets, as well as emerging  esg and sustainability challenges and opportunities. the  executive team ensures our sustainability initiatives are  aligned	with	business	strategy 	and	finalizes	esg-related	 investments.	 the	compensation	of	hershey’s executive	 team	is	linked	to	our 	dei	goals,	a	key 	differentiator 	for	 our industry. disclosure committee hershey’s disclosure committee, led by our chief  accounting	officer 	and	comprised	of	senior 	management	 in	key	functions,	including	our 	chief	sustainability 	officer,	 ensures that our public disclosures, including those related  to esg are consistent, accurate, complete and timely.  sustainability steering committee composed of key business leaders and esg subject  matter experts, this cross-functional group meets at least  quarterly 	to	evaluate	esg	strategy 	effectiveness	and	 interdependencies, provides input on investments to  support esg program deliverables and reviews progress  toward goals and key performance indicators relevant to  our global esg and sustainability programs.global sustainability team led	by	our	chief	sustainability 	officer,	this	team	is	 composed of esg experts who manage the strategy,  implementation and reporting of our global esg and  sustainability initiatives, including climate change and  human rights. the global sustainability team communicates  regularly with internal and external stakeholders who  provide valuable perspectives on our strategies, program  decisions and focus. for more information on our board committees, esg  oversight and responsibilities and approach to executive  compensation, see our  	proxy 	statement.  % of hershey’s board of  directors have experience  at a senior level in esg and  human capital management  (as of may  )   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report we also maintain several policies that control how we  responsibly source key ingredients and the standards and  behaviors we expect from our suppliers. other esg policies  relate to environmental management, human rights, food  safety and other key concerns for our company. our policies  are publicly available on our website. lobbying and transparent policy consistent with our code, hershey does not make political  contributions using corporate funds and only engages in  political giving through the hershey company political  action committee (pac). funds raised through the pac,  which is made up of voluntary employee contributions,  are	used	to	support	candidates	for 	elected	office	 who	 demonstrate a commitment to the growth of our business  and the communities in which our employees live, and  whose values and goals align with the company’s vision  and code. all contributions are disbursed pursuant to our  internal contribution guidelines and in accordance with  applicable election laws. our pac is bipartisan and funds  distributed from the pac are divided equally between both  major political parties at the federal and state levels. see the  pac	annual	report	  for more information.  corporate funds are used to support and advocate for  issues, legislation or referenda of importance to hershey.  these	funds,	classified	under 	the	u.s.	internal	revenue	 code as non-deductible lobbying expenditures, are paid  primarily to industry trade associations and to support the  salaries of our internal government relations personnel. in  accordance with applicable u.s. federal and pennsylvania  law,	our	company 	files	all	required	lobbying	reports,	 outlining the company’s federal and state-based advocacy  work. see our annual report of lobbying and advocacy  expenditures for more information.ethics and compliance  hershey is committed to the highest standards of ethics  and integrity. strong business ethics is key to our success,  and employees value working in an environment where they  can speak up and trust that the company and leadership will  do the right thing.  our code of conduct (the “code") reflects who we are and  what’s important to us, and emphasizes our commitment to  acting ethically. it provides the policies and guidelines that  define	how 	we	do	business,	including,	among	others,	those	 with respect to human rights, anti-corruption, antitrust,  whistleblower protection, and health and safety. all our  directors and professional employees receive annual  training on the code as part of onboarding and annually  thereafter, and must verify that they have read and agree  with the principles it outlines. our ethics & compliance  training program includes required online training, targeted  training and live sessions. the training’s objective is to help  guide employees and provide them with the information  needed to adhere to our code, our company purpose and  values. we audit our compliance program every two years  and regularly conduct fraud and corruption audits and  risk assessments.	 hershey encourages raising concerns and asking of  questions through our reporting channels when individuals  see or experience something that may not follow our  ethical business practices. one such reporting channel is  the concern line, which provides phone and web intake  options for employees and other stakeholders to ask ethics  and compliance-related questions and report unethical  behavior 	anonymously 	and	confidentially.	 the	concern	 line	is	available	 / ,	operates	in	more	than	 	countries,	 is	accessible	in	more	than	 	languages	and	has	toll-free	 numbers available in each of our locations.our esg governance   continued being recognized as an ethical  company means much more  than just complying with  organizational policy and  regulations. this recognition  means we consistently do  business the right way, living  our company purpose and  values, and putting integrity  first in everything we do, which  allows us to earn the continued  trust of our consumers,  customers, communities and  shareholders — a trust we must  never take for granted.”  james turoff, senior vice president,  general counsel & secretary,  the hershey companyethics are for everyone —  winning with integrity!  the hershey company has been recognized  among the  	 world's	most	ethical	 companies® as rated by ethisphere, a global  leader in advancing the standards of ethical  business practices. hershey is one of only nine  honorees in the food, beverage & agriculture  category, our second time as an honoree for  this recognition. we’re proud to be included  in this group of companies, which are known  for historically outperforming their peers and  competitors	financially 	as	this	demonstrates	 a tangible return on investment for doing the  right thing.  at hershey, we face ethics and compliance  risks every day, which is why it is so important  for every employee to learn to identify, act,  report and ask for help when needed. to help  ensure a spirit of compliance, hershey held our  first	enterprise-wide	integrity 	day	in	 .	 the	 ethics & compliance team partnered with our  network of   local compliance ambassadors  at each corporate and manufacturing location  to engage our colleagues in activities to raise  awareness about critical risk areas and how to  use the concern line. to bring this concept to  life, senior leaders shared their perspectives by  describing what leading with integrity looks and  sounds like to them. in addition to the concern  line, hershey’s compliance ambassadors  provide	a	confidential	and	neutral	channel	 for employees to raise ethics and compliance  concerns.   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report  employees play a critical role in safeguarding data. we  regularly educate and engage our people on this topic.  all global,	professional	employees	at	hershey 	are	required	 to	complete	 acceptable	use	and	data	classification	policy 	 training.	in	 january	 ,	we	conducted	our 	inaugural	data	 privacy day, an enterprise-wide event to raise employee  awareness of the importance of respecting privacy,  safeguarding data and enabling trust. data protection and cybersecurity our consumers, customers and coworkers recognize us  as a company that can be trusted and relied upon to be  responsible	 with	their 	data	and	 we	intend	to	fulfill	this	 expectation. we earn this trust by respecting the privacy  of our consumers, customers, employees, retailers and  others with whom we conduct business by maintaining  high standards for data protection, and by handling their  personal information with care. we strive to avoid negative  impacts that could arise from the mismanagement of data.  we are committed to complying with data privacy laws  that prescribe how to responsibly collect, store, use, share,  transfer and dispose of personal information wherever  we operate. as new and expanded data privacy rules  are enacted around the globe, our privacy center of  excellence provides	focused	resources	to	ensure	that	 we are well-prepared to comply with these emerging  regulations.	 this	cross-functional	team,	established	in	 ,	 is charged with designing and implementing appropriate  technical, physical and administrative measures to protect  personal data from unauthorized access, use, disclosure,  alteration or destruction. further, the company’s incident  response plan is reviewed annually and includes business  continuity and contingency plans related to data protection  and cybersecurity. our esg governance   continued   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report we are transforming our company  to become a leading snacking  powerhouse. we are expanding our  portfolio, elevating our capabilities  and growing supply chain capacity  to meet more consumers in more  snacking occasions. consumers have known and loved hershey’s iconic  chocolate	and	confections	for 	more	than	 	 years.	today	 they can enjoy the goodness inside our products on more  occasions by selecting from our growing snack options.  following	our 	 	acquisition	of	 amplify	snack	brands,	 inc	and	our 	 	acquisitions	of	dot’s	pretzels,	llc	(dot’s)  and	pretzels	inc.	(pretzels),	 we	now	offer	two	of	the	fastest	 growing	salty 	snack	brands	in	 : dot’s pretzels and  skinnypop popcorn. 	we	are	integrating	several distinct	 business	models	and	operations	into	one	unified	salty 	 snacks division within hershey. in doing so, we are bringing  the advantages and insights of our scale to enhance the  sales, procurement, manufacturing, distribution and esg  practices	of	these acquisitions. reporting structure in	late	december 	 ,	the	company 	reorganized	our 	 financial	reporting	structure	to	better 	align	our 	brands	and	 the markets we serve, support the breadth and depth of  our product portfolio, and provide more transparency to  our investors. investing in our  supply  chain our ability to grow — today and in the future — is rooted in  the quality of our products and the capacity to make and  deliver those product to meet consumer demand. we've  made	significant	investments	in	expanding	existing	facilities	 and developing new capabilities to speed production  and make more of our brands consumers love. we are  adding production capacity, reliability and flexibility in our  manufacturing operations and making our supply chain  more	agile,	efficient	and	flexible.	 fulfillment and distribution center. we are expanding  chocolate production in derry township, pennsylvania,  with	the	construction	of	a	 , -square-foot	plant	to	 produce chocolate for core brands including reese’s, kit  kat® and other hershey’s products, and is scheduled to be  completed	in	 . research facility in malaysia. this new center will enable  hershey to quickly develop, test and launch new products  customized to the tastes of consumers across the region. it  will become one of our largest research and development  facilities outside of the u.s. production capacity in mexico. we are installing two  high-tech production lines in our manufacturing plant in  nuevo león, mexico. the expansion is expected to increase  output	by 	 %	and	 will	generate	 	new 	jobs	at	the	plant,	 in	addition	to	the	 , 	employees	there	currently.north america confectionery represents our traditional  chocolate and non-chocolate confectionery market  position in the u.s. and canada. this includes business  in chocolate and non-chocolate confectionery, gum and  refreshment products, protein bars, spreads, snack bites  and mixes, as well as pantry and food service lines.  this segment also includes retail operations, including  hershey's chocolate world stores as well as licensing  operations globally. north america salty snacks represents salty snack  products in the u.s. this includes ready-to-eat popcorn,  baked and trans-fat-free snacks, pretzels and other snacks. international encompasses all other operating segments  including geographic regions where we operate outside of  north america. this includes operations and manufacturing  facilities in mexico, brazil, india and malaysia, and the  distribution and sale of confectionery products in export  markets of asia, latin america, middle east, europe, africa  and other regions.  scaling our goodness as we create scale in our salty snacks segment through  acquisitions, we will leverage our global scale to positively  impact both their practices and the broader esg  landscape. together, we are identifying opportunities to  bring the goodness from our proven values, practices and  processes to our new brands and products. from food  safety and responsible sourcing to packaging technology  and resource conservation, we’re evaluating how we can  best bring long-term sustainability to these new parts of  our business. one immediate area of focus is our expanded  supply chain network and responsible sourcing practices,  as our global procurement team shares its expertise in  achieving environmentally 	sound,	socially 	responsible	and	 sustainable impact.a bold strategy for growth  	“hershey eyes opportunities in snacking,”	food	navigator,	may 	 ,	 .   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report material esg issue: business operations and  supply chain resilience sweet salty   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report our snacks portfolioa bold strategy for growth   continued we craft snacks that work for every occasion — from indulgent treats for special  moments to options that support a healthy lifestyle. we use quality ingredients and  leading manufacturing standards and provide user-friendly nutrition information  on our packaging to offer trusted snacks that are safe and delicious. protein snacks research	shows	that	 %	of	consumers	are	looking	to	 add protein to their diet.  through an ongoing investment  in the irish protein bar maker, fulfil nutrition, hershey  supported the launch of a new fulfil nutrition snack- bar business focusing on north america. this enables us  to	offer	our	consumers	more	high-protein,	better-for-you	 confection and permissible snacking options, in addition  to current options such as our low-sugar, high-protein  one bars. what’s next • continue to meet consumer interests in sugar reduction  and protein enhancements across our better-for-you  confection portfolio • continue funding research to develop sugar alternatives,  such as our investment in rare sugar maker, bonumose,  that deliver the same taste, quality and experience that  consumers expect from our cherished brandssatisfying consumer needs making more moments of goodness  means offering a variety of lifestyle  and nutrition choices for a variety of  consumer preferences. nearly	three	in	four 	americans	( %)	snack 	at	least	once	 a day, according to the  	food	and	health	survey  of  the international food information council (ific). but at  the	same	time,	 %	of	 americans	report	that	they 	followed	 a	diet	or	eating	pattern	in	the	past	 year,	a	significant	 increase	from	 %	in	 .  as	one	of	the	 world’s	leading	 candy and snack companies, nutrition and health is an  esg material issue for hershey. we aim to satisfy these  consumer needs by creating a wide selection of choices.  through investments in research to spur innovation and  supply chain infrastructure, we satisfy an ever-widening  range of preferences. our expanding line of products  provides portion control, reduced-sugar, plant-based  and other 	options	that	empower 	consumers	 with	choices	 and information.	 we are committed to transparency and support consumers’  right to know what is in their food. to aid all consumers  in making informed choices, we helped develop an  industry-wide	technology 	for	u.s.	products	in	 ,	 called smartlabel™. by scanning the qr code on our u.s.  product packages, consumers may easily access detailed  information such as nutrition and ingredients, allergens  and	claims.	hershey 	currently 	maintains	more	than	 , 	 smartlabel product pages. hershey continuously explores new options to ensure  consumers can make the best choices to meet their needs.  at our technical center in hershey, pennsylvania, several  of	our	nearly	 	research	and	development	employees	 look for ways to reduce the amount of ingredients such  as sugar and salt in our products, which some consumers  prefer to avoid. this work is overseen by the vice president  of innovation and r&d.  low and zero sugar chocolates nearly three in four consumers are trying to limit or avoid  sugar in their diet.  to	offer	them	choices	they 	can	feel	 better	about,	hershey 	advanced	our 	product	offerings	for 	 sugar management and reduction with new low- and no- sugar	versions	of	our 	core	chocolate	brands.	in	 ,	 we	 offered	more	zero	sugar 	products	so	that	consumers	can	 access healthier options. we also rolled out lily’s sweets,  llc	(lily’s)	no-sugar-added	product	offerings,	following	 our acquisition of this company. further, our acquisitions  of dot’s	and	 amplify	offer	more	snacking	choices	to	 consumers across the nutrition spectrum with products  that are	lower 	in	both	sugar 	and	saturated	fat. affordable choices we are also adding more manufacturing capacity over  the next two years with three new distribution centers  and	 	new 	production	lines.	because	of	our 	investments	 in	capacity 	and	automation,	 we	can	efficiently 	package	 smaller, opening price points for consumers managing a  tight budget.plant-based products more consumers are seeking  plant-based and sustainable  treats, and we are meeting that  preference with the addition of  plant-based	offerings.	 we	are	 launching plant-based versions  of our hershey’s milk chocolate  with almonds and sea salt bar  and reese’s peanut butter cups  in	 .	 we	are	also	planning	to	 introduce plant-based honest®  gummies, made with organic  fruit juice. customer taste and  concerns constantly  change, but hershey  continually innovates  and finds new ways to  satisfy their choices.” charlie chappell, vice president,  innovation and r&d, the hershey  company  ,   	food	and	health	survey , international food information council.    	food	and	heath	survey, international food information council.   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report material esg issue: nutrition and health   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report excellence in food safety a shared responsibility  to drive the right behaviors around food safety and quality,  we provide standardized onboarding for all manufacturing  facility personnel as well as annual refresher training. in   ,	this	required	training	 was	provided	to	 %	of	our 	 manufacturing facility employees. as our company grows,  this training will be incorporated into the integration  process for any acquired manufacturing facilities. food safety is the responsibility of everyone at a food  manufacturing	company.	 thus,	in	 ,	 we	took	several	 steps to create a greater awareness of food safety across  all levels	and	functions	of	our 	organization.	 • a new food safety basics module was added to our  required onboarding training for all new salaried  employees and will be rolled out to all existing salaried  employees	in	 .	 we	also	plan	to	develop	ongoing	 annual awareness modules for all salaried employees to  help them understand how their day-to-day activities  and behaviors	impact	food	safety.	 • we’ve already provided this awareness-level training  to	 %	of	executive	team	members	and	their 	direct	 leadership teams.  • all new quality assurance, engineering and r&d  personnel completed initial training, while existing  personnel on these teams completed an annual  refresher training. targeted training equips employees to  understand their roles and how they impact food safety  so they can advocate for food safety at all times. →for a summary of our data on food safety and nutrition,  see page  . hershey is committed to creating more  goodness inside by delivering quality  products that meet the highest food  safety standards in the industry. hershey's quality management system, known as our  product excellence program (pep) takes a preventive  approach to food safety and quality. this program focuses  on identifying, reducing and eliminating food safety,  product quality and regulatory risks throughout product  design, supply chain, production and distribution. our  quality and regulatory compliance team provides  oversight to the program, ensuring proper controls,  monitoring and rigorous auditing practices throughout  the value chain. our focus is to ensure that our products  are manufactured to high quality and safety standards,  guarding against the potential negative impact of  contamination or food-borne illness that could harm  consumers and our brand. our quality and regulatory compliance team continually  reviews and evaluates emerging regulations and industry  practices to ensure we meet the latest requirements and  best practices. our program meets or exceeds current  global food safety initiative (gfsi) standards. in addition,  all hershey-owned manufacturing facilities are gfsi- certified,	 which	is	an	independent	 verification	of	the	 strength of our food safety and quality systems. but our  success is more than our programs — people are at the core.  all hershey products are designed and produced under  a hazard analysis and risk-based preventive controls  approach. we apply these principles to food safety and  product quality, meeting or exceeding global food safety  regulations. hershey products comply with all applicable  laws and regulations and are manufactured under strict  quality and safety requirements.material esg issue: food safety and quality food safety and quality starts  with our behaviors and culture.  we must continue to build that  mindset as we integrate the salty  snacks segment into the way we  achieve food safety, quality and  regulatory compliance as we  continue to protect our  consumers and our brands.”  mike lapioli, vice president, quality,  food safety and regulatory compliance,  the hershey companyexcellence in food safety   continued   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report bilingual learning  recently, our hazleton, pennsylvania, plant  transitioned to fully bilingual operations  to accommodate changing workforce  demographics in that community.  determined that language should not be  a barrier to employment or food quality,  the quality and regulatory compliance  team stepped up to help prepare the  new spanish-speaking employees for  their new roles. the team supported the  development of bilingual training materials,  knowledge tools and on-the-floor quality  documentation. by developing a new set  of food safety training and tools, we’re  gaining new workers needed to support our  commercial growth without compromising  food safety and quality.food safety across our value chain the entire hershey enterprise, including our recent  acquisitions,	sources	 %	of	ingredients	from	suppliers	 approved through the hershey supplier quality  management	program,	 which	is	defined	and	executed	 in compliance with applicable gfsi and regulatory  requirements. we achieve internal quality standards and  help drive systemic change by helping suppliers achieve  certification	under 	a	recognized	gfsi	standard.	 we	made	 great	progress	toward	the	goal	of	sourcing	 %	of	our 	 ingredients	from	gfsi-certified	suppliers,	 with	 . %	 certified	by 	december 	 ,	 ,	covering	 . %	of	our 	 sourced ingredients by spend. beyond our own organization, we promote food safety  among consumers and across the supply chain. as a  member of the alliance to stop foodborne illness, we  collaborate with like-minded industry stakeholders,  academics, regulatory experts and survivors of foodborne  illness. together we help to improve food safety through  resources such as free food safety webinars and an  online toolkit. what’s next • continue to strengthen adherence to food safety through  new onboarding and annual awareness modules for all  salaried employees • integrate our salty snacks segment into the product  excellence program (pep) to maintain food safety,  product quality and regulatory compliance across  our enterprise • continue leveraging data systems and digital tools to  enable data-driven predictive and proactive decision  making for food safety and quality activities in our  manufacturing operations    the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report we are committed to responsibly  marketing our products to consumers. our strong values guide our behavior in all aspects of our  brand-building work and consumer communications.  we respect that caregivers play a crucial role in teaching  children positive eating habits and the appropriate role  of treats and snacks in a balanced diet. adult consumers  equally deserve access to clear, credible information about  the nutritional content and other attributes of our wide  array of snacks and confections. we have detailed advertising guidelines that our teams  must follow, including advertising to children guidelines.  our marketing teams receive training on these guidelines,  which	govern	how 	we	advertise,	 who	we	target,	and	specific	 advertising guardrails.  hershey is a member of the u.s. children’s food and  beverage advertising initiative (cfbai), which is a  voluntary self-regulation program created to improve the  landscape of food advertising directed at children. under  our individual cfbai pledge, we commit to not engage in  advertising primarily directed at children under the age of   	or,	if	we	do,	to	advertise	only 	products	that	meet	cfbai’s	 nutrition criteria. for measured media, like television, radio  and	print,	 we	do	not	advertise	on	shows	 where	 %	or 	 more of the annual audience on average is composed of  children	under 	the	age	of	 .	beginning	 january	 ,	 ,	 our commitments governing advertising directed to  children, including our cfbai pledge, apply to advertising  primarily 	directed	to	children	under 	 .	we	submit	data	 and information annually to the cfbai demonstrating  compliance with this commitment. in canada, we participate in the canadian children’s  food and beverage advertising initiative (cai), overseen  by advertising standards canada. this commits us to  standards and principles similar to the cfbai in the u.s.  the most recent compliance and progress report from cai  outlines compliance by hershey and all other participating  companies regarding our advertising to children  commitments in canada. leading food and beverage trade associations in canada  have announced a new version of the voluntary food and  beverage advertising code that, for member organizations,  will govern food and beverage advertising across canada,  including advertising to children. under the new version  of this code, advertising for a food product may not be  primarily 	directed	towards	persons	under 	the	age	of	 	 unless	the	advertised	product	satisfies	child	advertising	 nutrition criteria. hershey will comply with the updated  version of the voluntary code when it comes into force  mid- . by agreement, we grant selected third parties a license  to display and use our well-known brands on a variety of  high-quality food and non-food items to be sold in various  outlets throughout the world. we are also proud of the  positive role our products play in raising funds for a wide  range of organizations and programs, including elementary  and secondary schools. that said, in conformance with  our voluntary pledges in the u.s. and canada, we do not  advertise our products to children in elementary schools  and we do not license our brands for use on educational  material or materials intended for use primarily in  elementary schools.ensuring credible, clear claims hershey is committed to providing clear, honest and  accessible information including ingredients, nutrition and  origin on all our products, including those that promote  healthy lifestyles. our food claims review council in the  u.s. works closely with product development teams to  ensure that all new products meet or exceed the standards  of the relevant third-party certifying bodies, e.g., u.s.  department of agriculture (usda) organic and non- gmo	project	 verified.	 the	council	provides	guidance	on	 a wide variety of topics, including nutrition, ingredients,  sustainability, responsible sourcing and product  certifications.	for 	example,	throughout	the	development	of	 updated packaging, the cross-functional council ensures  that all the claims and required labeling elements comply  with applicable law and regulations.marketing responsibly  _hersheys_f_   _kitkat_f_ tkp_hersheyblackmusicmonth_ - -    the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report in	 ,	 we	introduced	two	brand	campaigns	—	hershey’s  she campaign and kit kat black music month — to  lift up women and girls and elevate black and brown  youth through music, respectively. these campaigns  support organizations	including	girls on the run, girl up™,  and memphis music initiative and highlight that we can  achieve business outcomes while promoting social good. in each program, we engaged hershey employees, our  retail partners and their associates, to help us advance  equity and inclusion, amplify underrepresented voices  and support youth. the authenticity of these campaigns  sparked the enthusiasm and energy of people across our  enterprise.	 teams	combined	their 	efforts	to	help	us	reach	 our goals. building on these successful outcomes, we’re  excited	to	continue	these	campaigns	in	 . she campaigns  we activated consumers’ love of our flagship hershey’s  brand through our u.s. and international she campaigns,  and enhanced the programs through philanthropic  relationships with girls on the run and girl up™. the u.s. campaign celebrated the central role that  women and girls play in our lives with a limited edition  hershey’s milk chocolate bar with a new look. as part of  the campaign, we donated to girls on the run,	a	nonprofit	 dedicated to creating a world where every girl knows and  activates her potential and is free to pursue her dreams.  globally, we expanded the her for she campaign that  began	in	brazil	in	 	to	seven	international	markets.	 hershey partnered with girl up™, a girl-centered leadership  development initiative of the united nations foundation  that focuses on equity for girls and women. celebrating black music month with the memphis  music initiative as a heritage site for black music and with more than   	employees	at	hershey’s	manufacturing	facility 	in	the	 city, memphis was an important place for us to focus our  black	music	month	campaign	in	its	first	 year.	we	launched	 a	partnership	 with	nonprofit	memphis music initiative  (mmi), which provides programs that support black and  brown youth through transformative music engagement.  in addition to supporting the organization with a donation,  hershey engaged mmi’s young people to advise and  collaborate on the campaign’s development. limited- edition kit kat bars and hershey’s cookies’n’creme bars  featuring wrappers designed by three black women artists,  shae anthony, baraka carberry and laetitia charles- belamour, and were available in target stores nationwide  during	june	 .	celebrating women and  youth through our brands youth voice is at the heart  of what we do, and we are  grateful to the hershey  company for ensuring  that our young people  are  seen and valued.” amber hamilton, executive director,  memphis music initiative  kpis   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report our progress board of directors* unit       total directors #       women on board of directors #       %  %  %  % people of color on board of directors #       %  %  %  % *board diversity data relates to directors included in the hershey company’s proxy statement for the respective year. financial performance unit       countries in which our products are marketed # of countries       countries in which our products are manufactured # of countries       manufacturing facilities: wholly owned/joint ventures # of manufacturing facilities       consolidated net sales usd in millions $ ,  $ ,  $ ,  one year net sales growth %  . %  . %  . % shareholder return %  . %  . %  . % adjusted diluted earnings per share usd $ .  $ .  $ .  income taxes paid usd in millions $ .  $ .  $ .  worldwide payroll usd in millions $ ,  $  $  investment in r&d usd in millions $ .  $ .  $ .  brands # of brands >  >  >  weight of products sold metric tons  , ,   , ,   , ,    the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report nutrition and health unit       notes revenue from products labeled and/or marketed to promote health and  nutrition attributesusd (in millions) $ , .  $ .  $ .  revenue from products labeled non-gmo usd (in millions) $ .  $ .  $ .     	these	values	represent	revenue	from	our 	snacks	portfolio,	 which	includes	ready-to-eat	popcorn	 with	no	artificial	ingredients,	baked	and	trans-fat-free	snacks,	protein	bars	and	other 	better-for-you	snacks.   this result includes non-gmo confectionery and salty snack products. food safety unit       notes facilities	certified	against	a	gfsi	standard # of facilities         food	safety 	-	major	non-conformances	identified number       — food safety - major non-conformances rate rate  .   .   .  — food	safety 	-	minor	non-conformances	identified number         food safety - minor non-conformance rate rate  .   .   .    product recalls # of recalls         product recalls - total amount of food product recalled metric tons  .   .   .     	all	hershey-owned	manufacturing	facilities	are	certified	against	a	recognized	gfsi	standard.	 as	such,	all	facilities	are	audited	annually 	to	assess	compliance	against	the	provisions	of	the	standards.	 the	 	facilities	certified	 against	a	gfsi	standard	in	 	does	not	include	dot’s	pretzels,	llc	or 	pretzels	inc.	locations.	   the	number 	of	minor 	non-conformances	reported	in	 	 was	previously 	reported	incorrectly 	and	has	been	updated	to	reflect	the	correct	 value.		the	minor 	non-conformance	rate	has	also	been	updated	accordingly.  	this	rate	is	calculated	based	on	the	total	number 	of	audits	completed	in	the	calendar 	year,	which	was	 	for 	 ;	and	total	number 	of	minor 	non-conformances	identified	for 	the	same	time	period.	  	on	a	global	basis,	hershey 	conducted	one	recall	of	its	products	during	 	-	a	production	run	of	lily's	peppermint	flavor 	baking	chips.	  	the	recall	 was	due	to	another 	customer's	product	inadvertently 	getting	mixed	into	the	lily's	package	during	the	packaging	process.		 the	recall	included	 , 	cases	distributed,	equivalent	to	 . 	metric	tons	of	product.kpis cocoa cocoa remains our highest esg priority. our cocoa for  good strategy is designed to positively impact systemic,  social and environmental challenges in cocoa communities.  cocoa	for 	good	is	underpinned	by 	a	 -year 	$ 	million	 commitment focused on improving income resilience  for farming households, improving children's well-being  through access to education and nutrition and working to  eliminate child labor and deforestation. by helping disrupt  the cycle of poverty our aim is to improve cocoa farming as  well as diversify incomes at the household level, educate  families on the value of savings, empower communities,  foster women’s leadership and improve the quality of  nutrition	and	access	to	education.	 as	of	december 	 ,	 we	have	invested	 %	of	our 	original	commitment.   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the hershey company   esg reportcocoa for good why it matters cocoa, our highest priority ingredient, is our  top esg priority and critical to our long-term  business resilience and success. cocoa is  critical	to	the	financial	 well-being	of	many 	 farmers, who face numerous obstacles  including socio-economic challenges  such as lack of income resilience, and lack  of education. many communities face  insufficient	infrastructure	ranging	from	 inadequate	roads	and	schools	to	insufficient	 health care to a lack of modern farming  techniques. too often, the land they work  suffers	from	environmental	degradation	 including poor soil health, aging trees,  threat of disease to trees, and the impacts of  climate change. these social, economic and  environmental challenges threaten the cocoa  supply chain as they can lead to instances  of child labor and unsustainable farming  practices. these intertwined issues impact  the long-term viability and opportunity to  have thriving cocoa communities and the  longevity of our business.we’re working to make cocoa- growing communities stronger  for generations to come.our cocoa for good approach  we play a critical role in designing and implementing  strategies to address these systemic interconnected  issues. hershey, along with other industry leaders, has a  responsibility to contribute to a responsible, ethical and  reliable future to the supply of cocoa. we are committed to  improving the quality of life for cocoa farmers, their families,  their communities and the environment. our cocoa for  good strategy is embedded within our sourcing practices  and supported by our multi-million dollar investment  which targets improving income resiliency and livelihoods,  eliminating child labor and improving children’s well-being  and protecting the environment. to do this:  • we listen to farmers and their families and engage with  local communities and governments in cocoa origin  countries, incorporating their feedback and supporting  people-led change. see listening to and linking arms  with	farmers	on	page	 . • we partner with like-minded organizations to drive  change at scale. see cocoa partners on page  .  • we track our performance and share our successes and  learning opportunities. we carefully, consistently and  continually 	monitor 	our	efforts	to	ensure	that	 we	are	 having the impact we aim to achieve. we engage with  external sector leaders. see goodness inside starts with  accountability 	on	pages	 - .cocoa focus areas  improving income resiliency and livelihoods  we	provide	financial	support	and	training	to	cocoa	 farmers and their families to help create greater  income	resiliency.	 we	focus	our 	efforts	to	financially 	 empower 	women,	enable	access	to	financial	services	 and diversify sources of income to help farmers grow  their business, lift their livelihoods and stabilize their  household income.  → learn more on pages  - . eliminating child labor and improving  children’s well-being we work with local governments, our supply chain  partners, expert civil society organizations and  farming community members to combat child labor,  improve access to and the quality of education and  encourage children to remain in school. we also  work to equip youth with life and business skills  and resources to break the cycle of poverty in their  communities and become tomorrow’s leaders.  we provide improved nutrition for schoolchildren and  training to support home-based food security and  children’s nutrition.  → learn more on pages  - .  protecting the environment  we advance environmentally responsible agricultural  practices, combat deforestation and promote  agroforestry and shade-grown cocoa. we use  polygon mapping to improve traceability, understand  how and where cocoa is being grown and monitor  deforestation risk using satellite technology.  → learn more on pages  - .   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the hershey company   esg report                                                 cocoa for good  in the world we launched our cocoa for  good program and prioritized  our investments in côte d’ivoire  and ghana, where  % of the  world’s cocoa is grown. we’ve  since expanded our programs to  ecuador, indonesia, brazil, nigeria,  cameroon and mexico. → learn more about where we source  cocoa on our corporate website.  key: ❶ mexico ❷ ecuador ❸ brazil ❹ côte d'ivoire ❺ ghana ❻ nigeria ❼ cameroon ❽ indonesia   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report cocoa for good   continued the hershey company   esg reportdelivering on our cocoa ambition:  our planning cycle plan learn do checkwith guidance from hershey policies extensive origin assessments hershey key requirements updated ongoing progress reports from partners veriﬁcation by independent auditors insights from our own ﬁeld visitsperformance  & contract  management select most  impactful  programsdeﬁne ﬁt  for context  intervention,  per origin establish  partnershipssuppliers must align with the un guiding principles  on business and human rights and to the oecd  due diligence guidance for responsible sourcing  business conduct and references and must: • institute a policy commitment to meet the  responsibility to respect human rights • undertake ongoing human rights due diligence  to identify, prevent, mitigate and account for their  actual and potential human rights risks and impacts • have processes in place to enable remediation for  any adverse human rights impacts they cause or  contribute to where the risk of child labor is well documented,  the supplier implements a system to monitor and  remediate	children	identified	in	child	labor.	 these	 human rights due diligence systems are a means of  targeting prevention, mitigation and remediation  assistance to children involved in or at-risk of child  labor, as well as to their families and communities.  these systems include at a minimum: –	awareness raising and training –	monitoring	and	identification –	provision of support –	follow upthis is what an excerpt of the human rights section  looks like.   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report goodness inside starts  with accountability effective mechanisms to evaluate,  monitor and report our progress  are crucial to ensure our programs  effectively address the systemic  challenges that impact cocoa farmers.  the need for due diligence, transparency and accountability  is critical for our ability create positive impact and build  trust with our stakeholders. as we deliver on our cocoa  commitments, we continue to evolve our ways of working,  improve transparency for key stakeholders and provide  consumers with robust information about our products.  we strive to create policies that keep hershey accountable  to our goals and allow stakeholders to track our progress  and create alignment among our global teams. we rely  on	practices	such	as	independent	 verification,	sourcing	 visibility and impact studies as key levers to monitor, assess  and	provide	affirmation	on	the	efficacy 	of	our	actions. cocoa key requirements our cocoa key requirements help us clarify expectations  to our suppliers and partners implement programs in  cocoa	origins.	 this	document	clarifies	our 	expectations	 in regards to human rights due diligence, environmental  stewardship, traceability of cocoa and premiums paid to  farmers, data management, continuous improvement and  independent	 verification.	 with	over 	 	farmer 	groups	 in our programs on multiple continents, this clarity is  needed. inside our hershey key requirements we detail our  expectations in regards to human rights for both child and  forced labor, protecting environment, income resilience  and traceability. the hershey company   esg reportour priority cocoa goals   % independently verified cocoa to	continue	to	deliver 	on	our	commitment	of	 %	 independently 	verified	cocoa,	 which	we	achieved	in	  ,	we	continue	to	collaborate	 with	third-party 	 certifiers,	including	the	rainforest	 alliance	and	fair- trade	usa, as	 well	as	independently 	verified	programs	 through our suppliers.  % sourcing visibility by	 ,	we	aim	to	achieve	 %	sourcing	 visibility	in	 côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana	by 	requiring	that	 %	of	farmers	 producing our cocoa volume in these countries are: • polygon mapped by our suppliers to improve traceability  and monitor deforestation • covered by child labor monitoring and remediation  systems (clmrs) to prevent, monitor and remediate  child labor clear visibility into how and under what conditions the  cocoa we source is grown and cultivated enables us to  implement programs that focus on helping to improve  farmer incomes, eliminate child labor and protect the  environment. responsibly sourcing cocoa and prioritizing  our human rights and environmental expectations  requires collaboration between the public and private  sectors including governments, our suppliers, farmers and  manufacturers. we are also committed to improving farmer  livelihoods and incomes. while	côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana	continue	to	be	the	countries	 where	the	majority 	of	our	programming	is	focused,	in	 	 we implemented cocoa for good in brazil, cameroon,  ecuador, indonesia, mexico and nigeria.data-driven impact  as we evolve and strengthen our cocoa programs, impact  assessments	provide	important	data	to	affirm	 what	is	 making	a	positive	difference	and	 what	may 	not	be	as	 effective.	 we	are	committed	to	improving	our 	data	to	 improve	our 	approach	and	programs. to	this	end,	 we	 engaged ipsos, a global leader in market research, to  assess the	effectiveness	of	the	cocoa	for 	good	program	in	 côte d’ivoire	and	ghana	in	 .	 the	ipsos	study 	measured	how 	effectively 	cocoa	for 	 good	is	achieving	our 	business	objectives	and	fulfilling	 our commitments. it also provided independent,  objective	third-party 	verification	of	impact.	data	from	 this research measured income for cocoa farmers and  their households and informed the development of our  new income accelerator and will be used for current and  future community and farmer programs. ipsos provided  qualitative focus-group	discussions	and	in-depth	 interviews, as well as a quantitative surveys with a cross- section of hershey program participants, female household  members, community education leaders and local farmer  group leaders.  reporting our progress and challenges is an important  aspect of cocoa for good as it provides transparency to  how we are executing our strategies. hershey suppliers and  partners are critical in both implementing the programs in  cocoa communities, as well as providing evidence and data  of program progress. we also use this data to challenge  our thinking and assumptions with the goal to push us  to	further 	strengthen	our 	efforts.	ultimately,	this	leads	to	 better programs and better results for farmers, their families  and the communities in which they live. → learn more in improving income resiliency and  livelihoods on pages  - . % sourcing visibility of our cocoa  volume originating from côte  d’ivoire and ghana, on track to  reaching our   commitment  (as of december  )   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report goodness inside starts with accountability   continued  the hershey company   esg reportwe have a strong role to play in improving the quality of  life among cocoa farmers and their families while ensuring  a sustainable and reliable supply chain for generations to  come. but one company alone cannot solve the systemic  complex challenges. optimal solutions for the cocoa supply  chain require input and action from the entire portfolio of  stakeholders and the public, especially including cocoa  farmers and the origin governments of the countries  from which we source our cocoa. we join forces with and  leverage the expertise and resources of industry peers,  non-governmental organizations, international institutions  and origin governments to create solutions. cocoa partners partners in	 ,	our 	partners	included:eliminating child labor and  improving children’s well-being children of africa foundation,  helen keller international, project  peanut butter, government of  côte	d’ivoire	national	nutrition	 council,	government	of	côte	 d’ivoire national nutrition  programme (pnn), national  council for nutrition, feeding and  early	childhood	(côte	d’ivoire),	 government of ghana ministry  of gender, children and social  protection, government of ghana  school feeding programme.  aflatoun, inades formation, care  international, international cocoa  initiative (ici), save the children,  government	of	côte	d’ivoire	 ministry of national education  and literacy, cns - national  oversight committee for the fight  against	child	labor,	 trafficking	 and	exploitation	(côte	d’ivoire),	 otumfuo osei tutu ii foundation  (ghana).suppliers albrecht & dill trading company,  atlantic cocoa company, barry  callebaut, blommer chocolate  company, cargill cocoa &  chocolate, ecuakao processing  sa, fcstone, general cocoa  company, guan chong cocoa,  indcresa productos del cacao, jb  cocoa, life bv, olam international,  plot,	tafi	sa	and	united	cocoa	 processor, inc.protecting the environment  foundation for the parks and  reserves	of	côte	d’ivoire,	 government	of	côte	d’ivoire	rural	 land agency (afor), government  of	côte	d’ivoire	ministry 	of	water	 resources and forests (minef),  german agency for international  cooperation (giz), meridia,  nature conservation resource  center ghana (ncrc), ghana  cocoa board, government of  ghana ministry of lands and  natural resources, ghana forestry  commission,	ivorian	office	of	 parks and reserves, pur projet,  rainforest alliance, world cocoa  foundation, sourcemap.honoring and engaging with  our partners in the world’s  top cocoa-producing country  we value ongoing dialogue with our partners  and hershey senior leaders, including  our	chief	sustainability 	officer	and	vice	 president	of	procurement,	 visited	côte	 d’ivoire	in	 .	 they	met	with	government	 leaders, our supply chain partners,  development experts and cocoa-farming  families in their communities to hear directly  about their concerns.  we sought to show our ongoing support of  côte	d’ivoire	and	its	farmers	by 	participating	 in national chocolate and cocoa day  celebrations that showcased entrepreneurial  and artisanal chocolate makers, and  participated in awards presentations to  recognize accomplishments of some of the  country’s best farmers and farm groups.  while in west africa, hershey leaders also  presented more than a million servings  of grow nut, a children’s nutritional  supplement, to the children of africa  foundation, whose founder and president  is	côte	d’ivoire’s	first	lady,	dominique	 ouattara.improving income resiliency  and livelihoods  conseil	du	café-cacao	(côte	 d’ivoire),	côte	d’ivoire-ghana	 cocoa initiative, farmerline,  ici, ipsos, vert+, world cocoa  foundation.   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the hershey company   esg reportcontinuing our work to understand and  promote farmer incomes poverty in cocoa-growing communities is the result of many  factors including limited access to credit, weak pricing  negotiating power, overreliance on cocoa for income, aging  plant stock, lack of business tools, social imbalances and  illiteracy. these factors can perpetuate the cycle of poverty  and exacerbate the existence of child labor and deforestation  in these communities. our aim is to assist cocoa farmers’  transition out of poverty through research-based programs. in	 	hershey 	implemented	an	impact	assessment	 methodology with ipsos that included capturing data on  farmer and household income — a commitment hershey  made when we launched our living wage & income position  statement. as part of the ipsos research, we used living  income	definitions	and	benchmarks	endorsed	by 	the	living	 income	community 	of	practice	(licop),	 which	defines	living	 income as: “the net annual income required for a household  in	a	particular 	place	to	afford	a	decent	standard	of	living	for 	 all members of that household.” the results of our impact  assessment with	ipsos	are	consistent	 with	existing	studies	 and	confirms	that	only 	a	small	percentage	of	cocoa	farming	 households earn a household income above the living  income benchmark. the majority of farmers surveyed are  above	the	national	poverty 	line	in	côte	d’ivoire	but	 we	know 	 that is not enough.  we	are	now 	using	these	findings	to	measure	the	efficacy 	 of our programs in addressing farmer livelihoods, including  improving income, and informing our work in premiums,  income	diversification,	and	 village	savings	and	loan	 associations	(vslas).	most	significantly,	this	research	shaped	 the development of our new income accelerator. income accelerator to help cocoa farmers move out of poverty, we are launching  an	income	 accelerator 	in	côte	d’ivoire	in	 	following	 consultations with the ivorian government, farmer groups and other local and international partners. participation in  the income accelerator will be for those farming households  already enrolled and meeting the requirements of our cocoa  for good programs. it will expand on programming included  in our cocoa for good strategy to support cocoa farmers,  their	families	and	cocoa-farming	communities.	 this	five-year 	 program is focused on two strategies: the provision of cash  transfers to supplement farmer income, and investment  in vslas.	 cash transfers cash transfers are a proven poverty reduction strategy that  provide cocoa households with an additional source of  income. as part of our strategy, cash transfers will be awarded  based on the adoption of sustainable and regenerative  farm management practices that increase farm resiliency to  unexpected economic and environmental circumstances. village savings and loan associations vslas are community-based groups that help individuals  — especially women — and communities learn about saving,  borrowing and investing responsibly. vslas provide members  a local structure for increasing savings and accessing loans  at low interest rates in farming communities where formal  banking	and	micro-financing	services	are	scarce.	 they	 serve additionally as a vehicle for empowering women in  communities.	 the	flexible	and	inclusive	financing	provided	 through vslas help improve income, food security and  financial	literacy.	 vslas	often	engage	 women	in	household	 decision making, which can promote entrepreneurship and  support children’s education.  in partnership with rainforest alliance, care and cocoa  farmer	cooperatives,	hershey 	plans	to	upgrade	up	to	 	 vslas	in	its	supply 	chain	and	establish	another 	 	new 	 vslas,	which	we	anticipate	 will	support	up	to	 , 	 additional families.  hershey	currently 	directly	supports	more	than	 	 vslas	 with	more	than	 , 	members,	 %	of	 whom	are	 women.improving income resiliency  and livelihoods below the wb extreme  poverty line below the  wb extreme  poverty linesmall low  %  % medium medium  %  % largemedium  high %  %farm size productivityrevenue  spent on  inputs (%)income  from cocoa (%) key insightbelow the wb extreme  poverty line *learnings are based on an ipsos assessment.  these insights are critical to furt her program development and inform hershey  on which solutions, programs, and interventions are working or not working for the diﬀerent groups of farmers.above the li  benchmark below the li  benchmarkabove the li  benchmarkcôte d'ivoire household:    adults,    children ghana household:    adults,    children priority is to stabilize income and  proﬁtable diversiﬁcation. vsla  participation is highly encouraged.  priority is to refresh farm  development plans that provide  tailored planning advice to families. priority is to identify champions and  learn from this group. advance farm  development plans should consider  intense agroforestry.above the wb extreme poverty line  and below the li benchmark above the  wb extreme  poverty lineabove the wb extreme poverty line  and below the li benchmarkworld bank (wb) extreme poverty line living income (li) benchmark wb extreme poverty line li benchmark %  %  %  % %  %what we learned about the income of cocoa for good  farming families in côte d'ivoire and ghana* an example of how data driven insights  inform our cocoa for good programsmaterial esg issue: farmer livelihoods salient human rights issue: living wage and income   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the hershey company   esg reportcultivating cabbage  pays offsupporting income diversification to help diversify economic opportunities, we support cocoa  community members in developing alternative means of  generating	income.	in	 ,	more	than	 , 	community 	 members were trained in alternative income-generating  opportunities, such as soap making and cassava processing. industry collaboration and the enabling environment  achieving lasting progress toward a living income for  cocoa farmers requires systemic changes supported by  collaborating among diverse stakeholders. on july  ,   ,	hershey 	joined	the	governments	of	côte	d’ivoire	 and	ghana	and	 	other 	chocolate	and	cocoa	companies	 in signing the joint statement of intent, a commitment  to accelerate the move towards living incomes for cocoa  farmers and long-term sustainable cocoa. hershey was also  an active member of the european union cocoa coalition,  a grouping of chocolate and cocoa companies, ngos, and  certification	organizations	that	supported	the	development	 of mandatory supply chain due diligence legislation in the  european union that focuses on ending deforestation  related to the global production of several commodities,  including cocoa.  madam abena oforiwaa had been struggling for eight  years	to	make	a	profit	growing	cocoa	on	 . 	hectares	 of farm land in asankragua, ghana. she lacked capital,  business skills and technical expertise in good agricultural  and	environmental	practices.	in	 ,	madam	 abena	 joined the unicom-hershey cocoa for good program  and enrolled in our farmer business school. from there,  she	received	training	on	financial	literacy 	and	effective	 agricultural	practices	and	crop	diversification.	 with	this	 knowledge,	a	loan	and	the	support	of	the	field	officer,	 madam abena decided to plant cabbage. her venture paid  off,	and	she	harvested	 	sacks	of	cabbage	from	two	acres	 of	production	land,	a	 value	of	approximately 	$ . “before, my family wasn’t able to get an alternative source  of income apart from what cocoa is generating, which is  not	enough.	but	this	 year,	we	significantly 	increased	our 	 income through the cultivation of cabbage with the help  of a loan from our vsla,”said madam abena. “i couldn't  have established and managed the two-acre cabbage farm  without the vsla loan.” case study   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report improving income resiliency and livelihoods   continued  the hershey company   esg reportidentifying and addressing child labor our regular review of key risks in the cocoa supply chain  continues to highlight the importance of monitoring,  preventing and remediating instances of child labor. the child labor monitoring and remediation systems  (clmrs), championed by the ici and proven to be an  effective	measure	in	helping	to	protect	against	child	 labor, is the leading method of child labor detection and  remediation	among	children	aged	 – 	 years	old.	it	is	 implemented by supply chain partners and community- based groups that identify child labor and monitor and help  remediate when cases are found. supply chain partners are  responsible for collecting and reporting on this data. in	 ,	hershey 	began	implementing	industry-aligned	 clmrs best practices executed by supply chain and  community partners. for hershey, “remediated” means  that through our supply chain partners a child has received  mitigation	efforts	appropriate	to	their 	situation,	such	 as being enrolled in school; and as a result, the child no  longer	participates	in	activities	defined	as	child	labor 	and	 is no longer at risk of being enlisted to undertake these  potentially hazardous activities. cases are considered  “remediated” when measures have been documented over  three years.  due	to	case-by-case	differences	between	child	labor 	 situations, remediation can be done at the child, household  or community level. remediation responsiveness, therefore,  can range from almost instant (e.g., household awareness  training that is conducted when data is collected and/ or	cases	found)	to	six 	to	 	months	(e.g.,	renovation	of	 classrooms or school canteens to get kids back to school). children	identified	as	 victims	of	child	labor 	receive	two	 or three follow-up visits over several months to establish  whether they are out of child labor. continued monitoring  then reveals whether those children stay out of child  labor	consistently 	or	are	identified	once	more	engaging	in	 potentially hazardous activities.eliminating child labor eliminating child labor in cocoa-growing communities, child labor is a complex  issue resulting from a mix of poverty, cultural norms and  misunderstandings about what constitutes appropriate  child work on a farm. in many communities, child- appropriate work on the family farm or in the household  is an important part of youth learning and cultural  development. however, endemic poverty and a lack of  educational opportunities in rural areas can lead families  to depend on children putting in long hours at home  and on the farms, which are often the families’ sole  source	of	income.	paired	 with	insufficient	awareness	 about appropriate work, this puts children at risk of  performing farm work that is hazardous to their health  and development. hazardous child labor not only poses a  danger to children: it also plays a role in further entrenching  intergenerational poverty in rural communities. our approach	includes	improving	community 	and	farmer 	 awareness. we also invest in preventive, supplier-led  approaches that monitor farmers to check that child labor is  not occurring and provide resources and oversight to help  remediate instances of child labor if they are discovered.  in addition, we invest in solutions for root causes including  supporting infrastructure like building schools and  renovating classrooms, and providing supplemental  nutrition in schools to help keep children in classrooms  and out of child labor. our income resiliency programs  described	on	pages	 - 	also	seek 	to	provide	improved	 household incomes so families are not reliant on children in  ways that are hazardous.what is child labor? hershey uses the international labor  organization (ilo) definition: child labor is work that is mentally, physically, socially  or morally dangerous and harmful to children and/or  interferes with their schooling. not all work performed  by children, such as helping their parents around the  home	and	assisting	in	a	family 	business,	is	classified	as	 child labor. such activities are sometimes referred to  as “light work.” the worst forms of child labor put children at  the greatest risk and are the highest priority for  elimination. most instances of inappropriate child  labor involve tasks such as carrying heavy loads like  firewood	or 	water,	contact	 with	agrochemicals	or 	 clearing of land with sharp tools. child labor is distinct from forced labor,  which is defined by the ilo as: situations in which persons are coerced to work  through the use of violence or intimidation, or by  more subtle means such as accumulated debt,  retention of identity papers or threats of denunciation  to immigration authorities. as a member of international cocoa initiative’s  forced labor sub-group, working with our peers and  technical experts to advance knowledge, skills and  action on preventing, monitoring, identifying and  addressing forced labor in cocoa supply chains.in	 ,	our 	clmrs	covered	 %	of	farmers	producing	 hershey	cocoa	volumes	in	côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana,	on	the	 way	to	achieving	our 	goal	of	 %	by 	 .	as	of	december 	  ,	our 	clmrs	found	no	evidence	of	forced	child	labor 	 in	our	programs	in	côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana.	more	than	  , 	children	 were	either 	remediated	or 	have	aged	out	of	 the clmrs. we also support the establishment of community-level  child protection committees. composed of trusted  community members, these groups are well-positioned  to raise awareness, identify cases of child labor and  implement the most appropriate practices to remediate  those cases. depending on the type of child labor detected,  remediation support is conducted at the child, household  or	community level. successful child labor remediation strategies vary and need  to respond to the needs of individual children and their  families. they may also be dependent upon the presence  of government social welfare agencies to which cases can  be referred for additional follow-up by local authorities.  by increasing farmers’ awareness of what constitutes child  labor (such as children carrying heavy loads and being  exposed to farm pesticides) and improving farmers’ and  families’	ease	and	efficiency 	of	completing	tasks	around	 the farm, children are less likely to participate in dangerous  farm tasks. what’s next • continue to improve the quality of clmrs and to expand  it with the aim of ensuring no child is overlooked, and  everyone receives the support they needmaterial esg issue: - child labor salient human rights issue: - child labor - forced labor   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the hershey company   esg reporthershey ranked as  leader in protecting  children’s rights hershey	scored	in	the	top	 %	of	 	 worldwide	 food, beverage & personal care companies for our  performance in protecting children’s rights, as assessed  by the stockholm-based global child forum in its  corporate sector and children’s rights benchmark  report, the state of children’s rights and business   .	in	collaboration	 with boston	consulting	group,	 the global child forum assessed how companies  implement children’s rights and sustainability  governance	against	 	indicators,	using	publicly 	 available	data. hershey 	performed	 well	on	the	survey,	 scoring	an	 . 	out	of	 	in	the	benchmark,	 well	ahead	 of peers	in	the	sub-sector 	and	was	featured	in	the	 report as	a	best	practice.	 recognition from the global child forum is  especially 	significant	given	its	integration	 with	the	 world benchmarking alliance and alignment with  the	children’s	rights	principles. we	use	information	 from this report and other industry standards to gain  valuable insights into where our activities are promoting  or potentially damaging children's rights so we can  take action to mitigate risks otherwise overlooked. this  report, among others, helps catalyze systemic change  by informing current best practices. how clmrs is helping keep kids safe children and their families  receive remediation support  from supply chain facilitators and  ngo partners or are referred  to public services, an approach  that is aligned with practices  recommended by the ilocommunity facilitators  visit every farm assigned  to their farmer groupany child involved in hazardous  activity is identiﬁed and information  about his/her situation is recorded the report is veriﬁedthe data is used to design  actions in support of  children identiﬁed.❶ ❷ ❸ ❺❹case study it is imperative that we keep  focusing our efforts at hershey, to  move toward a more responsible  cocoa supply chain, where human  rights are respected. it is only  through collaboration, supported  by appropriate policies, that we  will be able to ensure human  rights are respected in cocoa  communities so that children  can grow, play and develop in a  healthy and safe environment.  success is best when it’s shared.” angela tejada chavez, head of  sustainable sourcing — cocoa,  the hershey company   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report eliminating child labor   continued the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report improving children’s  well-being school-based nutrition not only does satiety improve a student’s ability to  concentrate and learn, it can also be the deciding  factor between whether or not a child attends school.  in collaboration with national and local government  authorities, including school principals, and supply chain  partners	in	côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana,	hershey 	provided	 a	daily	vitamin-fortified	snack,	vivi ,	to	nearly 	 , 	 children	in	 	schools	in	cocoa-growing	communities.	 vivi , developed by hershey and our partner project peanut  butter,	provides	children	 with	 %	of	their 	daily	nutritional	 intake requirements. vivi  is produced in factories in san  pedro,	côte	d’ivoire	and	kumasi,	ghana,	that	employ 	 dozens of local people and provide a secure market for  more	than	 	ghanaian	peanut	farmers. knowing that children will be fed at school is another  reason to ensure they go to class rather than to work,  making	it	an	important	preventive	tool	in	the	fight	against	 child labor. 	providing vivi improves children’s health and  increases school enrollment and regular attendance while  also enabling improved academic performance, according  to an independent audit conducted for hershey by deloitte. preparing a new generation of farm and  community leaders  to break the intergenerational cycle of poverty, a new  generation	of	farmers	in	cocoa	communities	(defined	 as	 	to	 -year-olds)	needs	the	life	skills,	technical	and	 vocational skills and the practical knowledge and tools  needed	to	become	self-sufficient	community 	leaders	 of the future. we support young farmer economic  empowerment through access to vocational training,  land tenure documents and the development of income- earning opportunities such as community pruning teams.  pruning	teams	are	groups	of	up	to	 	 young	adults	 who	help provide essential pruning services to cocoa farmers in  their communities. regular pruning of cocoa trees helps to  prevent tree mold and diseases and reduces the need for  farmers to apply agrochemicals and pesticides. in addition to providing an invaluable service to farmers,  these community pruning teams provide young farmers  in cocoa-growing communities with valuable skills and  knowledge about cocoa farming, while also helping to  support their families with extra income.through access to education,  nutritional support for school children  and vocational training for teens  and young adults, we are helping  communities raise a new generation  of young people better prepared to  become self-sufficient leaders. access to education we seek to proactively prevent child labor by removing  barriers to children being able to attend school and by  encouraging	school	attendance.	 we	focus	significant	 resources	and	effort	on	making	it	easier 	for	children	 to access and continue their education, such as by  improving education infrastructure, training school-parent  management	committees,	providing	school	kits	filled	 with	 important school supplies, distributing vivi (a vitamin- fortified,	peanut-based,	ready-to-use	therapeutic	food)	to	 schoolchildren and helping children and youth obtain birth  certificates	for 	school	enrollment. in	october 	 ,	we	signed	a	five-year 	agreement	 with	 the	jacobs	foundation,	the	government	of	côte	d’ivoire	 ministry	of	education	and	literacy,	and	 	other 	chocolate	 producers and cocoa suppliers to implement the child  learning and education facility. this new public-private  initiative contributes to improved foundational literacy and  numeracy 	skills	for 	five	million	children	at	primary 	school	 level	and	includes	an	investment	in	 , 	new 	classrooms. ,  children enrolled in  primary schools that  benefited from quality  education interventions  ,  school kits provided   education quality and child labor publication | ici.nearly  ,   children in    schools in cocoa-growing communities in  côte d’ivoire and ghana received daily  servings of vivi, our vitamin-fortified,  peanut-based food supplement   birth certificates  obtained to enable  access to school   classrooms renovated the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report mapping and monitoring, supporting  land titling, and promoting agroforestry  are powerful tools to help protect  the environment for cocoa-growing  communities. in the lush equatorial cocoa-growing regions of west  africa, rain forest deforestation and biodiversity loss  are a manifestation of a complex set of root causes  including poverty, the absence of land titles, a lack of  clarity on land tenure arrangements, limited knowledge  of good agricultural practices and resource-challenged  law enforcement agencies. the resulting deforestation  and biodiversity loss have cascading systemic impacts  on myriad other societal, economic and environmental  issue, creating negative feedback loops in these countries.  hershey is focused on making a positive impact in this  complex system. committed to protecting forests protecting existing forests is the cornerstone of our  environmental approach in our cocoa supply chain.  since	 ,	hershey 	has	publicly 	committed	to	no	new 	 deforestation in our global cocoa supply chain. we  utilize three key levers designed to protect the uniquely  rich forests and ecosystems where cocoa is produced.  we proactively monitor forest conditions and changes,  promote	affordable	land	titling,	and	spread	climate-positive	 farming tools and techniques across the cocoa-growing  regions	in	côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana.	each	of	these	practices	 synergistically 	enhances	the	effectiveness	of	the	others	to	 conserve natural forests and adhere to our deforestation  pledge. and each of these practices harnesses the power of  technology-based tools from the use of satellite imaging of  forest lands to handheld gps land surveying tools and the  powerful cocoalink smart phone mobile app. protecting the environment making the cocoa- climate connection eliminating deforestation  resulting from land use change,  particularly that associated with  cocoa, is critical to achieving our  goal	of	a	 %	absolute	reduction	 in	scope	 	ghg	emissions	by 	  	against	a	 	baseline.	 → learn more in reducing emissions  in our value chain on pages  - .securing land titles to unlock land value land ownership is a key element in saving trees. when  farmers gain control of their land they are more likely to  access	financing	or 	make	necessary 	changes	on	their 	farms	 to prevent deforestation, promote reforestation and apply  agroforestry 	and	climate-smart	cocoa	farming.	our 	côte	 d’ivoire land partnership program (clap) has proven to be  an	effective	means	of	promoting	affordable	land	titling	as	a	 catalyst for halting deforestation. hershey co-launched this  program	in	 	 with	the	german	 agency	for	international	 cooperation	(giz),	the	government	of	côte	d’ivoire	and	 other partners. through our intervention and design of  relevant land tenure documents that are government  sanctioned and community accepted, this partnership has  shortened the time of delivery and costs of securing land  titles, greatly improving farmers’ access.  in	some	areas,	such	as	zégo,	a	town	in	côte	d’ivoire’s	lôh- djiboua region, clap provides members of the village  land management committee with technical training on  the use of gps devices to record land rights, with a special  focus	on	land-use	contracts	 with	tenants.	benefiting	from	 fit-for-purpose	technology,	community 	members	can	 now record land rights locally and formalize owner-tenant  agreements, something previously cost-prohibitive for  these communities. through this initiative, farmers are  encouraged to plant more trees since ownership now  resides	with	them	and	they 	eventually 	benefit	from	their 	 own	efforts.  the hershey company   esg reportcase study one of hershey’s foundational strategies for reducing  emissions from deforestation involves compensating  farmers	for 	carbon	benefits	in	the	nsuoekyir 	apimanim	 community resource management area (crema).  crema is a community-based natural resource  management and governance mechanism, which hershey  and partners such as the nature conservation research  centre are implementing in the biodiverse rainforest  habitat of the kakum landscape. under the ghana cocoa  forest redd+ program, the world bank carbon fund  will make payments to the government of ghana for  performance-based emissions reductions (i.e., reducing  deforestation and forest degradation). due to its rich  habitat and high biodiversity, the kakum area will receive  the	majority 	of	these	payments	in	the	form	of	benefits	 to registered farmers adopting climate-smart cocoa,  identified	community-based	development	projects,	and	 to indigenous traditional leaders who have supported  the governance system. by listening to and working with  farmers such as gordon essiaw, an active leader and  enthusiastic supporter of his crema, hershey and our  partners can establish a productive dialogue where we  can share resources and information while catalyzing  responsible land use. gordon essiaw is a cocoa farmer in assin beyede ghana,  where he participates in nsuoekyir apimanim crema.listening to and linking  arms with farmerscase study   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report from sharecropper  to land owner seidu	yakubu,	 ,	is	a	member 	of	the	nyame	nnae	society 	 in the asankragua district and has been share cropping  cocoa	on	 . 	hectares	for 	 	years.	he	depends	solely 	on	 the revenue the farm produces to pay school fees, hospital  bills and other utilities. unfortunately, the farm’s yield  was very low due to over-aged cocoa trees and climate  change impacts. in	 ,	seidu	registered	for 	the	ecom	hershey 	 sustainability program and quickly completed training in  good agricultural techniques, environmental practices,  sustainability and business management. “in	 ,	i	joined	the	hershey 	and	usaid	land	tenure	 systems that aim to address land rights for some farmers  and reduce litigation issues,” reports seidu. ”it came to  rescue us from the dangers of this land tenure system by  renegotiating with our landlords and traditional authorities  and also securing some form of ownership of trees planted  and nurtured by us from the forestry commission unit.  they provided signed documents with farm plan with the  traditional rulers, which gives us ownership of trees planted  on our farmlands. since then, i have been able to plant and  maintained	 	fast-growing	trees	on	my 	farmland,	 which	will	 provide some shade as a protection to the cocoa trees and  help mitigate the negative impact of climate change”. seidu also joined hershey’s payment for ecosystem  services program, which intends to motivate farmers  to restore the ecosystem by compensating them for  planting a required number of shade trees under a proper  management system. seidu is very pleased that in return  for	planting	 	desirable	shade	trees	and	 	fruit-bearing	 pawpaw	trees	he	 will	receive	ghs	 /year per 	acre	for	his	 farm paid in two installments.mr. seidu yakubu, a  cocoa farmer in ghana,  planted   shade and  fruit trees since securing  an ownership title to the  land he farms.protecting the environment   continued the hershey company   esg reportcase study   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report protecting biodiversity in the  kakum conservation area what’s next • launch a deforestation satellite monitoring investment/ program	in	 . • evaluate updating our no deforestation policy  (aligned  to	flag	guidance	to	shift	to	 	as	an	end-date;	 accelerates	 work	from	original	timeline	of	 ,	and	puts	 hershey into closer alignment with peers).  • feasibility 	study	to	understand	potential	areas	for 	côte	 d'ivoire agroforestry. • new program launched with the foundation for the  parks	and	reserves	of	côte	d’ivoire	to	protect	the	newly 	 created mabi-yaya nature reserve. the partnership  includes	replanting	trees	on	nearly 	 , 	hectares	of	 degraded lands inside the reserve’s boundaries. → for a summary of our cocoa goals and kpis, see pages  - .located in central ghana, the kakum conservation area  is one of the most biologically rich forests in ghana. it  forms part of the west africa guinea forest biodiversity  hotspot	 area,	which	has	been	identified	as	having	one	 of the highest levels of biodiversity and species in the  world. commonly referred to as a national park, kakum  is a popular ecotourism site that attracts hundreds of  thousands	of	 visitors	annually 	to	its	wildlife	filled	lush	 forests.	within	a	five	kilometer 	radius	of	the	park,	there	 are	around	 	communities	 with	an	estimated	 , 	 households that maintain cocoa farms typically ranging  from	four 	to	eight acres.   in	 ,	community-based	teams	monitored	bird	diversity 	 within and around the park during the wet and dry seasons,  with support from hershey and other partner cocoa  companies. our commitment to protect forests means  we	take	action	in	understanding	the	benefits	of	forest,	 the	monitoring	of	birds	is	one	of	the	most	effective	 ways	 to understand the health of ecosystems — and even more  important considering the kakum conservation area is  one of the most biologically rich forests in ghana. this  exercise	identified	 	unique	species	of	birds,	 with	a	total	 bird	count	of	more	than	 , .	in	addition	to	birds,	 , 	 species	have	been	identified	as	living	in,	or 	within	proximity 	 to the kakum conservation area, according to the iucn  red list of threatened species. this includes a population  of	approximately 	 - 	critically 	engendered	 african	 forest elephants.female forest elephant and  calf captured by camera-trap  in kakum conservation area  (photos courtesy of ghana’s  wildlife division, kakum  national park headquarters).   satoyama initiativethe main threats to biodiversity in kakum include hunting  and poaching, the loss of complex agroforestry habitats  around the forest, illegal logging in the adjacent forest  reserves and climate change. crop raiding, in which  elephants and other mammals leave the forest to eat  cocoa pods, maize and other food crops from surrounding  farms,	is	also	a	significant	threat	as	it	destroys	people’s	 livelihoods and fosters frustration and anger towards  wildlife and the park. to date, there is no program that  supports compensation for crop raiding or aims to mitigate  the	problem.	in	 ,	hershey 	will	continue	to	 work	with	 our partners to design a program to protect both the  biodiversity 	of	this	important	habitat	and	the	financial	 well- being of the people who live and farm nearby,protecting the environment   continued case study in her own  words: mary  frimpong  ababiomary	frimpong	 ababio,	 	 years	old,	has	been	cultivating	 cocoa	for 	five	years	on	eight	acres	of	agricultural	land	in	the	 goaso fawohoyeden district of the brong ahafo region  of ghana. “i heard about the cocoalink app a year and a month ago  during one of our meetings in ghana. the team gave an  elaborate overview of the app and its usefulness to our  farming and other businesses engaged in. they assisted me  with the download and installation of the app. since then, i  regularly visit it for content for my cocoa farming and other  business activities.  the app has a lot of articles useful for my cocoa cultivation.  it teaches me how to take care of my farm and plantation.  personally, the most important article is pruning. this course  taught me how and when to prune my farm especially when  there is a lot of shade from the leaves of the trees. applying  the lessons learned prevented the spread of mistletoe and  black pod diseases on my farm. another useful course is  choosing and preparing the plantation. it helped me make a  good decision when expanding to my new farm. the article  on rudiments of saving made me appreciate setting money  aside for future use and investments. cocoalink has taught  me how to save my money and also take care of my health. cocoalink is an amazing app and i would recommend it  to every cocoa farmer i know. it has empowered me to  do more and in less than two years of using the app it has  helped me grow more.” the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the power of cocoalink cocoalink, a smart mobile application  which provides training and learning  resources to farmers and agriculture  support staff, was designed with  farmers’ needs in mind. cocoalink provides credible information for sustainable  cocoa cultivation in ghana, leveraging the use of mobile  phones to share practical information with farmers. it is  accessible to farmers regardless of their age and location  and	can	also	be	used	by 	different	stakeholders	in	the	 ghanaian agriculture sector. hershey helped create  cocoalink,	 which	launched	in	 ,	and	has	empowered	 many farmers across west africa by providing good  agronomic practices and up-to-date information to  farmers and	other 	stakeholders	in	the	cocoa	industry.	 why cocoalink? cocoalink provides training and learning resources to  farmers	and	agriculture	support	staff.	 through	cocoalink,	 farmer extension services are delivered to cocoa farmers  through	a	low-cost,	effective	and	realistic	mechanism	 that enables cocoa farmers to request and receive timely  information on farming, social, health and marketing to  improve their livelihoods and most importantly, learn at  their own pace. cocoalink has provided an avenue for thousands of  cocoa farmers in ghana to receive appropriate training  thereby increasing their yield. given that ghana is the  second largest producer of cocoa, cocoalink is a tool with  great potential to transform the lives of cocoa farmers in  the sector.	  y ears of impact   — hershey partners with the ghana cocoa  board to launch the mobile app.  	—	cocoalink 	introduced	to	farmers	in	côte	 d’ivoire.   	—	 , +	ghana	cocoa	farmers	registered	and	  , +	free	text	messages	sent.   — farmers in cocoalink communities increased  their	yields	by 	 . %	in	three	 years.  	—	between	 	and	 ,	cocoalink 	has	 seen	a	significant	usage	amongst	farmers	in	cocoa	 communities in ghana. the number of users has  increased	across	different	supplier 	programs	and	not	 always sponsored by hershey. cocoalink’s features  have been merged with farmerline’s mergdata  education module. we are glad to see how our  initial support has led to the development of a new  organization that is fully independent. today, digital tools are helping unlock entirely  new	possibilities	making	farming	more	profitable,	 efficient,	safer 	and	more	environmentally 	friendly.	 unfortunately, many smallholder farmers in west  africa have stuck to the traditional approaches  passed down to them by their forefathers. this has  affected	their 	productivity 	and	yield.	it	may 	be	a	 simple lack of awareness that has prevented the  adoption of technology in their planting, harvesting  and storage practices. cocoalink is an innovative and smart solution that  provides farmers with real-time information on coping  with dry weather, pruning and pesticide applications  as well as safety and health information. cocoalink is  a hershey supported infrastructure to provide training  and learning resources.   the hershey company   esg reportgoals   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report our progress cocoa target y earprogress (as of dec.  ,   ) goal status notes  %	independently 	verified	cocoa    % achieved —  %	sourcing	 visibility	of	hershey’s	cocoa	 volume	in	côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana	    % on track —  %	of	farmers	producing	hershey’s	cocoa	 volume	in	côte	d’ivoire	and	 ghana are polygon mapped by our suppliers to improve traceability and  monitor deforestation   % on track    %	of	farmers	producing	hershey’s	cocoa	 volume	in	côte	d’ivoire	and	 ghana are covered by child labor monitoring and remediation systems  (clmrs) to prevent, monitor and remediate child labor   % on track    	beginning	in	 ,	to	be	considered	polygon	mapped,	all	farm	plots	managed	by 	the	farmer 	must	be	mapped,	as	defined	by 	the	world	cocoa	foundation.	previously,	a	farmer 	was	considered	polygon	mapped	if	 at least one plot of land was mapped.   this refers to households covered by clmrs. kpis the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report lifting up rural livelihoods unit       notes cocoa for good commitment usd (in millions) $  not disclosed not disclosed   farmer groups supported through cocoa for good # of farmer groups       — farmers supported through cocoa for good total # of farmers  (%	female	) ,  ( %  female) , 	( %	 female) , 	( %	 female)— farm development plans %	(total	#	of	 plans) % ( ,   plans) %	( , 	plans)  %	( , 	plans) — farmers receiving individual coaching total # of farmers  coached	(%) % ( ,   farmers coached) %	( , 	 farmers coached) %	( , 	 farmers coached)— community members trained on nutrition and health total # of  members trained  ,   ,   ,  — community members trained in alternative income-generating activity # of community  members  ,   ,  not applicable    	$ m	is	the	cumulative	amount	invested	as	part	of	our 	cocoa	for 	good	commitment	from	 	-	december 	 ,	 .   this metric is aligned with the world cocoa foundation monitoring, evaluation and learning framework. notes:  data reflects results as provided by hershey suppliers and implementation partnerspreventing child labor unit       notes children monitored # of children  ,   ,   ,    children	identified	 via	clmrs	in	côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana	doing	inappropriate	 work and in process of remediation# of children  ,   ,   ,    children	identified	as	no	longer 	doing	inappropriate	 work # of children  ,   ,  not applicable   children	identified	in	forced	labor # of children       — capacity building — monitoring and remediation agents and community  liaisons (paid and volunteers)#  ,     ,  — children	receiving	 vivi	on	a	daily 	basis	(côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana) total # of children  ,   ,   ,    children	enrolled	in	primary 	schools	that	benefited	from	quality 	education	 interventions# of children  ,   ,  not available — school kits provided # of school kits  ,   ,  not available — birth	certificates	obtained	to	enable	access	to	school # of birth  certificates	   ,  not available — classrooms renovated # of classrooms     not available —  	results	are	cumulative	since	 .	 this	refers	to	children	in	households	covered	by 	clmrs.   results	are	cumulative	since	 .		 as	we	expand	our 	clmrs	coverage,	the	number 	of	children	monitored	increases	as	 well	as	the	likelihood	of	finding	cases.	 as	with	previous	 years,	all	cases	are	in	the	process	of	remediation.  	results	are	cumulative	since	 .		 these	cases	have	been	remediated	or 	children	have	aged	out	of	clmrs.	 this	metric	is	aligned	to	the	ici	protocol.  	vivi	is	our 	vitamin-fortified,	peanut-based,	ready-to-use	therapeutic	food. notes:  hershey strives to align our kpis to industry best practices and methodologies, including the international cocoa initiative, which are constantly improving and evolving.  data reflects results as provided by hershey suppliers and  implementation partners. kpis the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report fighting deforestation unit       notes non-cocoa trees distributed total # of trees  , ,   ,   ,    cocoa seedlings distributed across global cocoa origins total # of  seedlings  ,   , ,   , ,  — land titles acquired with hershey’s assistance #  ,   ,    — farmers with all their farm boundaries mapped via gps polygon mapping # of farmers in  cote d'ivoire and  ghana with all  farms mapped  ,   ,   ,    farm	area	mapped	in	côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana # hectares  ,   ,   ,  — cocoa	for 	good	farmers	in	côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana	trained	on	climate-smart	 cocoa using a curriculum hershey helped develop%  %  % not disclosed —  	non-cocoa	trees	include	trees	that	provide	environmental	(cocoa	companions),	nutrition	(e.g.,	fruit)	or 	economic	(e.g.,	timber)	benefits.   the	methodology 	for	this	kpi	changed	in	 	to	be	more	stringent.	 to	count	one	farmer 	as	being	mapped,	all	the	farms	must	be	polygon	mapped.	 the	scope	of	this	kpi	applies	to	côte	d’ivoire	and	ghana. notes:   data reflects results as provided by hershey suppliers and implementation partnerssupporting women in achieving economic independence unit       notes vslas supported # of vslas       — vsla members total # of  members	(%	 female ) ,  ( %  female) , 	( %	 female) , 	( %	 female)— total savings and interest accrued annually usd $ , ,  $ , ,  $ ,     	 	results	are	cumulative	 values	from	 - . notes:  data reflects results as provided by hershey suppliers and implementation partners. responsible  sourcing  and  human  rights we seek to infuse goodness into our entire value chain by respecting  the rights of people and communities, and by insisting on responsibly  sourced, sustainably grown ingredients. our deep respect for the rights of each person started with our founder milton  hershey. today, that core value is a key business strategy and integral aspect  of our operations. protecting human rights is both a societal expectation and  an opportunity to drive positive impact in communities where we live and  work, through our business practices and relationships. each day, the people at  hershey work to protect and respect human rights across our full value chain.     contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report human rights across  our value chain the hershey company has a deep, longstanding  commitment	to	respect	human	rights.	our 	efforts	 encompass due diligence and programming across our full  value chain, including our operations and supply chain. our human rights strategy is guided by our salient issues  and implemented through due diligence processes  in accordance with the united nations guiding  principles on business and human rights (ungps)  and the organization for economic co-operation and  development oecd guidelines for multinational  enterprises (oecd guidelines). we identify, evaluate and  prioritize	action	on	the	most	significant,	relevant	risks	to	 people, working to enable rightsholders to exercise and  enjoy their fundamental human rights. when we identify  negative impacts, we seek to mitigate them and take  corrective action. accountability for managing human rights is embedded  in our esg governance structure. the director of global  sustainability & esg, director of responsible sourcing and  head of sustainable sourcing cocoa are responsible for  developing and delivering our human rights due diligence  programs and assurance frameworks to detect, protect and  remediate human rights risks and issues, including forced  and child labor issues, in our value chain, including our  agricultural and manufacturing supply chains. additional  details about human rights governance are provided in our  esg	governance	on	pages	 - .	 our other actions to protect human rights, including our  ambition to eliminate child labor, are described in the  cocoa	chapter 	of	this	report	beginning	on	page	 .protecting human rights is a  business imperative that is critical  to our long-term success. why it matters for	more	than	 	 years,	we	have	operated	 on the understanding that we are integral  members of the communities where we  live and work. the remarkable and diverse  group of people who work for hershey and  the individuals who participate in our value  chain are critical to the long-term success of  our company. we believe in the principles of equality and  non-discrimination and are committed to  treating all individuals with respect and  dignity. we use our influence and business  relationships to promote opportunity for all  people throughout our value chain so they  may exercise and enjoy their fundamental  human rights. we also recognize the critical  interdependencies between achieving our  human rights agenda and delivering our  broader commitment to be a responsible  and ethical business. in particular, the need  to address the disproportionate impact of  climate change on vulnerable communities,  how wage and income inequalities are linked  to issues like child labor and deforestation,  and the importance of a just transition.our guiding policies a number of policies, standards and expectations guide  our actions related to human rights. our human rights  policy , which outlines our broader commitment to respect  human	rights	throughout	our 	value	chain,	including	efforts	 to prevent and address modern slavery and forced labor,  was developed in accordance with the ungp on business  and human rights. we look to this and other leading global  standards and frameworks such as the oecd guidelines, to  inform our approach. we review and evolve our policies and  programming	to	ensure	they 	remain	relevant	and	effective	 as an output of our due diligence process as well as  consideration for changing regulatory, non-governmental  organization (ngo) and investor expectations and changes  in our business.  additional information about our human rights standards  may be found in the hershey code of conduct, human  rights policy, hershey supplier code of conduct (scoc),  responsible recruiting & employment policy , living wage  & income position statement, and statement against  slavery	&	human	 trafficking. material esg issue: - deforestation -  human rights (supply chain)salient human rights issue: -  climate impacts and  deforestation - forced labor -  land rights and acquisition   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report human rights at  the enablersrightsholder engagement — social dialoguepolicies and procedures — transparency and accountabilitystrategic partnerships —human rights is core to our esg  strategy. our human rights policy  outlines our commitment to respect  human rights throughout our value  chain. our program is based on the  ungps and delivered through our  robust hrdd programs. our salient  issues to the right, describe our most  pressing issues. our enablers below  describe the actions we are taking  to respond to our salient issues and  inform our programs. it is a complex  system with many interlinkages and  interdependencies that we navigate  and consider in the development  of our core programs.forced labor child labor land rights and acquisitionhealth and safetyliving wage  and income access to water  and sanitation climate impacts and deforestationgender and social inequality   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report maintaining focus on our most  salient human rights we concentrate our actions on the areas  that pose the greatest risk to individuals  and offer the greatest potential for  improving people’s lives. in accordance with the guidance of the ungps, we  reviewed and updated our human rights saliency  assessment	in	 .	 we	undertook 	this	process	to	ensure	 that our human rights due diligence (hrdd) systems  and broader human rights programs are focused on the  most pressing human rights risks in our full value chain  and the areas where we can make the biggest impact. the  results	reaffirmed	the	importance	of	many 	of	the	human	 rights	issues	 we	identified	in	our 	initial	saliency 	assessment	 and	areas	 where	we	already 	have	significant	programming	 such as child labor, forced labor, living wage and income.  the	process	also	helped	us	refine	our 	understanding	of	 how hershey could cause, contribute or be linked to topics  such as: gender and social inequality, climate impacts,  deforestation, and natural resource management, and  resulted	in	updated	definitions	from	 which	we	can	take	 further	action.	complete	definitions	of	each	salient	issue	 are	available	in	the	 appendix 	of	this	report	on	page	 .	 we assessed our full value chain including hershey- owned operations and our upstream and downstream  supply chains. conducted in partnership with twentyfifty,  a leading human rights and business consultancy, we  undertook extensive research on the relevant geographic,  economic, cultural and social factors that play into the  enjoyment	of	rights.	our 	process	also	involved	significant	 engagement with internal and external stakeholders,  including suppliers, ngos, investors and internal  business leaders. where possible, we looked to external  organizations, including advocacy organizations, to serve  as proxies for important rightsholders. taking action on human rights our expanding work in human rights timeline prior to            -          initiated work on our  income accelerator in  cocoa addressed human rights  through our work in cocoa,  responsible sourcing, in our  code of conduct, and in our  supplier code of conductlaunched our cocoa for  good strategy to address  systemic social and  environmental challenges,  including human rightsconducted our ﬁrst  human rights saliency  assessment to identify  risks to individuals versus  the businesspublished our ﬁrst human  rights policy and updated  supplier code of conduct strengthened our hrdd with  launch of our responsible  sourcing supplier and  responsible recruitment  programsreleased living wage &  income position statement  with commitment to pay  full-time employees a living  wage and to strengthen our  programming focused on  cocoa farmer incomesconducted engagement  surveys of workers in  hershey’s malaysia and india  facilities and cocoa farming  communities in côte d’ivoireconducted a baseline  assessment of cocoa  farmer incomes refreshed our human  rights saliency assessment  to revise issues;  conducted a gap analysis  of our hrddadded a human rights  element to our mandatory  code of conduct training  for all professional  employeesdeployed additional  worker engagement  surveys in hershey- owned and supplier  facilities in malaysia,  mexico and  the u.s.   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report we’re working to  build human rights  due diligence systems  that increasingly  engage workers and  farmers directly.” whitney mayer, director,  global sustainability and esg,  the hershey company our hrdd process anchors  our approach and is  embedded throughout our  policies and programs.  salient issues hrdd embed identify & prioritize respond & remediate track communicatepolicies & programs supplier program o n-site social living wage &surveys + direct worker employment program worker & farmer voiceresponsible sourcing    com pliance audits   living income and farmer engagementresponsible recruitm ent & salient issues hrdd embed identify & prioritize respond & remediate track communicatepolicies & programs supplier program o n-site social living wage &surveys + direct worker employment program worker & farmer voiceresponsible sourcing    com pliance audits   living income and farmer engagementresponsible recruitm ent & our due diligence process human rights due diligence (hrdd) is an ongoing risk  management process that enables us to prevent, identify  and mitigate current and potential human rights risks  throughout our value chain, with a focus on our most  salient issues. it is informed by the ungps and utilizes a risk  methodology that we developed with the leading human  rights	nonprofit	 verité.	 to	ensure	our 	approach	remains	relevant	and	effective,	 we	conduct	periodic	updates	and	refreshes.	in	 	 we	 updated our priority ingredient risk assessment. we will  use insights from this refresh to research opportunities  to engage with industry partners and strengthen our  programming. to ensure timeliness, our risk assessment  used updated human rights risk indices for the ingredient  supply	chains	in	specific	countries.	 → learn more in our priority ingredients and materials on  pages  - .  in	 ,	 we	conducted	a	gap	assessment	of	our 	hrdd	 in partnership with twentyfifty. we assessed the  effectiveness	of	our 	overall	program	and	hrdd	systems	 against international requirements in the ungps and  oecd sector guidelines to identify key strengths and  areas of improvement in our human rights strategy  and	programs.	 the	findings	confirmed	that	our 	key	 strengths include a clear governance structure, training  programs and responsible sourcing and supply chain  due diligence programs. we also learned that hershey,  like many of our peers, has the opportunity to improve  in the areas of remedy, grievance mechanisms and  rightsholder engagement. we will continue to look for  ways to strengthen these areas in collaboration with  peers, suppliers,	ngos	and	governments.ongoing hrdd programming includes conducting due  diligence on our own facilities and on those high-risk  suppliers	that	are	identified	through	our 	risk	assessment	 process. through our responsible sourcing supplier and  responsible recruitment programs, we conduct due  diligence	on	specific	topics,	including	human	rights	and	 labor issues.  → learn more in responsible sourcing on page  . we also include human rights risk screening in our  supplier	qualification	process	to	assess	forced	labor 	and	 other human rights risks before entering into commercial  relationships.  → learn more in how we responsibly source goods  and services on pages  - . finally, our commercial contracts for suppliers of plush  cotton and renewable energy include requirements on  forced labor that go above and beyond our supplier code  of conduct, with clear requirements and expectations  around production document records and traceability.taking action on human rights   continued   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report grievance mechanisms and access to remedy  we	seek 	to	provide	access	to	effective	remedy,	in	line	 with the ungps, when our business may cause or may  contribute to adverse human rights impacts. we also  use our influence with suppliers and business partners to  encourage	the	provision	of	remedy 	when	we	find	issues	 linked to our supply chain. those who report a grievance in good faith are free  from retaliation and retribution. our mechanisms are in  addition to other channels or procedures, such as local law  enforcement agencies, to resolve their issue where relevant.  we also partner with other organizations to help prevent,  mitigate and remedy adverse human rights impacts.  examples of how we provided remedy in   • reimbursement of fees in malaysia. learn more in  standing	up	for 	workers’	rights	on	page	 . • identify, investigate, monitor and remediate child labor  situations, when they exist, in our supply chain through  our child labor monitoring and remediation systems in  cocoa. learn more in eliminating child labor on pages   - . training on human rights  we deliver an ongoing and expanding training initiative to  ensure that we fully embed a deep regard for human rights  within	our 	company 	and	across	our 	value	chain.	in	 ,	 we maintained our commitment to provide human rights  training	to	 %	of	procurement	professionals	as	 well	as	our 	 international supply chain, licensing teams and the hershey  experience, our global retail operations. the training covers  hershey’s salient human rights issues — including forced  labor and child labor — the ungps, business impacts to  human rights, human rights in our value chain, how we address and promote respect for human rights, how to  identify and report a human rights violation, human rights  considerations in purchasing practices and how to be an  internal champion for human rights. for	the	first	time	in	 ,	 we	provided	human	rights	 training to all professional employees across our entire  enterprise. our ethics & compliance team integrated  a human rights module into our mandatory code of  conduct training. this training, while not as detailed as  the training for procurement professionals, covers an  overview of fundamental human rights, how to identify  and report a human rights violation, and includes a case  study on indicators of forced labor including recruitment  fees.	in	 ,	 %	of	all	professional	employees	completed	 code of conduct training.  additionally, supplemental human rights training is  available for hershey employees in our learning system  and	is	offered	in	english,	spanish,	french,	chinese,	 portuguese	and	hindi.	since	 ,	more	than	 , 	 employees have chosen to expand their human rights  knowledge and participate in this learning opportunity.  more detailed information on our hrdd approach, the  results of our risk assessment process and our work in  human rights can be found on the human rights section  of our website and in our statement against slavery &  human trafficking.taking action on human rights   continued listening and taking action we provide a number of mechanisms that  enable our employees and individuals in our  supply chain to report grievances and seek  resolution.  how we listen: • hershey’s concern line (available in  more	than	 	languages)	is	primarily 	 geared toward our employees but is also  accessible to our suppliers and other  stakeholders. our concern line accepts  all categories of complaints, including  human rights issues, deforestation, code  of conduct violations and other topics.  • we require that our direct suppliers  have grievance mechanisms, which we  validate via social compliance audits and  through cocoa, sugar and palm oil supplier  sustainability assessments. • our public grievance process for  the implementation of the hershey  company’s responsible palm oil  sourcing policy . • grievance mechanisms made available  through	certification	bodies	or 	standards- setting organizations. • while not formal grievance mechanisms,  our worker and farmer voice surveys are an  additional way for us to understand where  rightsholder concerns might exist.  	this	training	 value	from	 	does	not	include	employees	 from lily’s or pretzel’s,	 which	hershey 	acquired	in	 .   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report recruitment fee practices when we engage with vendors to correct shortcomings or  audit violations, we have three major objectives. we want  to remediate any harm that came from the violation, which  may	include	restitution	to	affected	 workers.	second,	 we	 want the vendor to learn and improve, making a permanent  change in their behavior. finally, we want to drive sustained  improvements in the broader system. a recent incident in  malaysia shows how we achieved each of these objectives. → learn more in standing up for workers’ rights on page  . engaging with rightsholders hershey recognizes the importance of engaging with those  who are impacted by our work — from farmers and their  communities to our employees, consumers and others.  we prioritize identifying and engaging with vulnerable  stakeholders via methods and frequency that align with  their individual needs. we do this both directly and  indirectly through representative organizations when our  position in the supply chain limits us from being the most  effective	partner 	for	direct	engagement.	 we engage with a broad range of organizations from  independent farmers to large suppliers and labor  agencies to tackle shared concerns such as wages,  working conditions, safety, land rights and environmental  conditions. our interactions take many forms, from worker  voice surveys, third-party audits, hotlines and training  to collaborations through sector and industry groups. in  cocoa, for example, our hershey team members, suppliers  and ngo partners conduct regular visits with cocoa  farmers and their communities throughout the year. → learn more in cocoa for good on pages  - .responsible recruitment  and employment we strive to protect the rights of workers  beginning when they’re recruited  and hired throughout the time they’re  employed in our supply chain. we promote and follow ethical recruitment, hiring and  employment practices that reinforce and help us deliver  on our broader commitment to human rights as outlined  in our human rights policy . one of our strategies to  promote responsible recruitment and eradicate forced  labor is strengthening the management systems of labor  agencies that recruit workers into our hershey facilities and  strategic co-packers. see responsible sourcing supplier  program for 	details	around	 work	in	our	supply	chain.	labor 	 agencies are required to complete a self-assessment  questionnaire (saq) every one to three years, depending  on the risk score of the country in which the agency is  located and its previous saq score. we also verify labor  agencies’ recruitment, hiring and employment policies  and procedures through our own desktop research. where  our expectations are not being met, we require that labor  agencies take corrective actions and submit evidence of  completion. to drive systemic improvements in workplace  practices, we provide training with smaller agencies to  help them identify root causes of nonconformities and  implement	effective	corrective	actions.	 we	also	offer 	access	 to the responsible labor initiative’s e-learning academy   to all labor agencies in our program. our achievements • verified	closure	of	non-compliances	of	five	labor 	 agencies in malaysia via sedex members ethical  trade audit (smeta)  -pillar  follow-up audits  and a human rights assessment with impactt, ltd.  worker	voice	surveys	conducted	 with	the	five	 agencies provided positive worker feedback on  the effectiveness	of	due	diligence	efforts.	 • reimbursed	recruitment	fees,	 valued	at	$ , ,	 to  	nepali	agency 	workers.	 • pre-qualified	two	new 	labor	agencies	for 	our	 malaysia plant through smeta or labor agency  equivalent audits prior to contract approval. we support: • the employer pays principle • the consumer goods forum’s priority industry  principles our commitments: • hershey responsible recruiting  & employment policy • hershey supplier code of conduct  our engagement: • the multi-industry, multi-stakeholder  responsible labor 	initiative (rli) • international cocoa initiative's forced labor  working group • aim-progress responsible	recruitment	 working group,	co-chair → for a summary of our responsible recruitment data,  see page  .   the sedex members ethical trade audit (smeta)  -pillar audit protocol is  composed of two modules: labor standards (including human rights and  forced labor topics), and health and safety.  worker  voice surveys   ,  contract and temporary workers and  farm workers shared their experience  of being part of hershey’s supply chain,  more than double compared to    ,  workers engaged through  surveys in   and  in	 ,	 we	expanded	our 	efforts	to	engage	 workers	and	 farm workers in our own operations and in our supply chain  more directly through on-site and mobile surveys. we  conducted worker surveys, including elevate's worker  sentiment survey and a ulula/sedex worker survey, with  several suppliers and co-packer partners in malaysia,  mexico and the u.s. we also conducted elevate's  labor risk survey with all of the labor agency workers  in our malaysia plant. these surveys allowed workers to  anonymously 	and	confidentially 	share	their 	perceptions	of	 their	working	environment	and	confirm	access	to	a	trusted	 grievance	mechanism.	 through	these	surveys	 we	identified	 opportunities for continuous improvement and stronger  worker engagement. we will continue to embed worker  surveys into our other hrdd process, including audits, as  we	deepen	our 	understanding	of	 which	surveys	are	fit	for 	 purpose	at	different	tiers	of	our 	supply	chain.	   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report case study standing up  for workers’  rightsthrough a human rights assessment, we learned that   	nepali	agency 	workers	at	our 	malaysia	facility 	had	 paid recruitment fees to a labor agent in nepal. this is  a violation of our supplier code of conduct and our  responsible recruiting & employment policy. the  assessment also revealed that the workers’ passports  were being held by the labor agency. we do not  tolerate violations	of	these	policies,	and	thus	required	 the labor agency to implement a corrective action plan,  which involved reimbursing the workers and returning  their passports.  to ensure that the labor agency complied with our  requirements, we engaged impactt, an independent  human rights consultancy, to verify the amount of the  fees	to	be	returned	to	the	 	 workers.	hershey 	and	the	 labor agency reimbursed these recruitment fees, valued  at	$ , ,	to	the	 workers.	 we	also	ensured	that	the	 workers had their passports returned and now keep  them secure in their personal lockers at their dorms or  at	work.	impactt	also	 verified	that	the	labor 	agency	had	 implemented its corrective action plan and successfully  closed all the issues.  beyond correcting those issues, we were glad to learn  that the workers reported a better understanding of  their rights and entitlements as workers. in addition,  the workers commented positively on the nature of the  work, the environment and their relations with suppliers.  finally, the labor agency updated its responsible  recruiting procedures, and we continue to work with  the agency on the topic to prevent future workers from  being charged a recruitment fee.  responsible recruitment and employment   continued   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report salient human rights issue: living wage and income   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report living wage and income cocoa supply chain cocoa continues to be where we see the greatest income  vulnerability in our supply chain and, to address this  challenge, we launched an income accelerator focused  on improving	farmer 	incomes	in	côte	d’ivoire.	 → learn more in improving income resiliency and livelihoods  on pages  - .  our broader supply chain while our focus remains on advancing living wage in  our own operations and in our cocoa supply chain, our  research highlights that wage and income vulnerabilities  exist	in	multiple	parts	of	our 	supply	chain.	in	 ,	 we	 partnered	 with	the	fair 	wage	network to	identify 	those	 geographies	in	our 	tier	 	supply	chain	where	wage	risks	 and	vulnerabilities	exist. we	are	using	these	insights	as	 we	 collaborate with other industry organizations or ngos on  this	topic.  we also want to empower companies of all sizes and  categories to understand and measure living wage gaps.  this can be accomplished by providing access to publicly  available benchmarks with credible methodologies and  measurement tools that can be consistently applied and yet  are flexible enough to accommodate the needs of diverse  supplier categories and sizes. we’ve taken several steps to  accomplish this: • as co-chair of the aim-progress living wage working  group, we helped to create the living wage playbook,  a practical	tool	for 	fast-moving	consumer 	goods	 companies and their suppliers to build living wage into  their supply chains • we	provided	grant	funds	to	lw us	to	build	out	a	user- friendly	tool	and	database	that	 will	make	u.s.	specific	 living wage data and benchmarking widely available to  companies with employees and operations in the u.s. • through our role with the idh call to action, hershey  joined with other companies to co-fund the idh salary  matrix for living wagewhat’s next • continue	to	refine	our 	due	diligence	and	programming	 which includes our updated salient issues  • deepen our understanding of the intersection of human  rights and environmental issues, including natural  resource management and the impacts of climate change  and deforestation  • continue our strong programming to address child labor,  promote living wage and living income, and promote  responsible recruitment practicesall individuals deserve the opportunity to earn a decent  standard of living. being paid fairly is a cornerstone of  human rights. we recognize the importance of a living wage  and the opportunity to earn a living income in both our own  operations and throughout our value chain as a step toward  fighting	systemic	poverty 	and	its	cascading	impacts. we adhere to our living wage & income position  statement. we validate our practices through external  benchmarks and research tools that help us identify wage  and income vulnerabilities in our own operations and supply  chain as well as best practices for remediation. in assessing  wage and income vulnerabilities, we consider gaps between  living wage benchmarks and minimum wages, existing  research on farmer income, national systems/transparency  around wage-setting and collective bargaining among  other areas. in	 ,	 we	remained	focused	on	those	areas	 where	 we have the greatest control and influence: our own  operations and in cocoa, where we see the greatest  income vulnerabilities. hershey-owned operations we maintained fair pay practices in our own operations,  paying all full-time global employees a living wage, as  benchmarked by business for social responsibility’s (bsr)  living	wage	values.	in	 ,	based	on	our 	annual	living	 wage	 review process, we provided adjustments to two hourly full- time employees in our manufacturing facilities. to improve  our ability to monitor wages in our own operations, we also  developed an internal living wage dashboard. this tool now  enables us to access real-time gap analyses for part-time  and full-time employees by location. we also maintain our  affiliate	membership	 with	living	 wage	for 	us	(lw us)	 which	helps	us	better 	understand	different	benchmarks,	 gap assessment tools and strategies for remediation.defining living wage vs.  living income living	wage	and	living	income	are	two	different	but	 related concepts that we address in distinct ways.  living wage : the remuneration received for a  standard workweek by a worker in a particular place  sufficient	to	afford	a	decent	standard	of	living	for 	the	 worker and their family; applies to hired workers in  factories, on farms, etc. living income : the net annual income required for  a	household	in	a	particular 	place	to	afford	a	decent	 standard of living for all members of that household;  applies to any income earner, such as self-employed  farmers.  →to learn more please see hershey living wage & income  position statement.taking a broader view we take action on other global challenges that also  pose threats to human rights.  • at its core, systemic racism is a human rights issue.  we have a longstanding commitment to dei  and	we	are	accelerating	our 	efforts	to	be	a	more	 inclusive company. learn more in dei is good  business on page  . • climate	change	poses	a	significant	threat	to	 human rights globally. its impacts disrupt global  food supplies and threaten livelihoods. vulnerable  communities will be disproportionately harmed  by rising temperatures and the related safety and  water scarcity risks. our supply chain includes many communities that will  be impacted if the world does not take bold action  to combat the impacts of climate change. as such,  we are committed to doing our part to take action.  read more	about	our 	climate	commitments	on	 pages  - .  	hershey supports the global living wage coalition's definition	of	a	living	 wage.   hershey is a member of and supports the living income community of  practice definition	of	living	income. material esg issue: - responsible sourcing -  business operations and supply  chain resilience   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report a reliable supply of ethically,  sustainably sourced ingredients is  vital to making more moments of  goodness for many years to come. our responsible sourcing strategy our	responsible	sourcing	strategy 	guides	how 	we provide	 great-tasting, high-quality products to our consumers.  it is designed to deliver positive impact and long- term sustainability in our end-to-end supply chain in  collaboration with our suppliers and industry partners.  our responsible sourcing strategy was developed in  consultation with diverse internal and external stakeholders,  including suppliers, customers, human rights groups and  multiple ngos that work in our raw material value chains.  collaboration with our global network of hershey-owned  operations, suppliers and business partners is critical in  executing our strategy and making sustainable, systemic  progress. our strategy, which is guided by our human  rights policy and our environmental policy , focuses on  responsibly sourcing goods and services and fostering  sustainable	agricultural	communities,	as described	in	 how we	responsibly 	source	goods	and	services	on	 pages  - .responsible sourcing   hershey is committed to upholding the highest standards  for responsibly sourcing our key ingredients and materials  while avoiding negative impacts. our responsible  sourcing strategy  broadly encompasses two elements:  our responsible sourcing supplier program (“supplier  program”), which governs how we engage with direct  suppliers to responsibly source goods and services, and our  priority ingredients and materials approach to sustainable  sourcing. we strive to maintain a supply chain that is  sustainable, responsible and resilient to ensure that we can  continue to operate and grow. to secure the longevity of  our business, we seek to minimize risk and contribute to the  vitality and livelihoods of the communities and ecosystems  we depend on to source our ingredients and manufacture  and deliver our products.  we strive to achieve both traceability — knowing where  an ingredient or material was produced or grown — and  transparency, knowing how it was produced. sourcing  products	from	farms	certified	or 	verified	to	a	recognized	 sustainability standard shows us that the production  practices meet basic requirements of the standard to  address	environmental	and	social	risks. our 	sourcing	 program seeks to address additional related environmental  issues including greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions,  deforestation, water quality, biodiversity and soil health.  → learn more in our priority ingredients and materials on  pages  - .why it matters in a time of geopolitical conflict, increasing  social inequality and climate-driven  disruptions,	it	is	increasingly 	difficult	for 	 companies in the food sector to maintain  a reliable supply chain. labor shortages,  transportation disruptions, water stress and  risks to global economic recovery caused by  responses	to	the	covid- 	pandemic	have	 created challenges such as rising costs and  raw materials shortages. we follow a comprehensive, ongoing process designed to  manage our relationship with suppliers in a way that drives  near-term impact while addressing deeply embedded  systemic challenges. we engage with suppliers to help  them raise their performance through corrective action  plans	and	capacity 	building.	our 	supplier 	program is	 aligned with our human rights saliency assessment  described	on	page	 .	 we	apply 	the	process	described	 on	this	page	to	 verify	and	monitor 	compliance	of	 tier	 	 suppliers with our supplier code of conduct and portions  of the process to hershey-owned facilities. acknowledge all suppliers enrolled in the supplier program formally  acknowledge our supplier code on an annual basis. we  expanded the scope of our supplier contract agreements  by adding a responsible sourcing addendum that includes  some, or all, of the following items depending on the good  or service a supplier delivers. these additions include  hershey’s code of conduct, supplier code of conduct and  responsible recruiting & employment policy, as well as our  expectations and requirements regarding supplier program  and responsible recruitment due diligence, ingredient  sourcing and supplier diversity.  assess suppliers complete saqs on an annual basis which allows  hershey to understand our suppliers’ business practices  and areas for improvement that may require follow-up prior  to an on-site audit. we	continue	to	assess	 tier	 	suppliers	and	sites	and	enroll	 those who we identify as high-risk or high priority into the  supplier program. our supplier assessment covers four  categories of risks: human rights risks based on geography;  human rights risks based on value chain; volume of hershey  spend;	and	supplier 	continuity 	risks.	in	 ,	 	new 	suppliers and sites were enrolled into the supplier program,  mainly contract manufacturers and packers for hershey, our  confection and salty businesses, as well as new licensees.  prior to entering into a commercial relationship with  hershey, prospective suppliers undergo a responsible  sourcing and human rights screening that includes  responding to a saq and/or providing a social compliance  audit for hershey to review. the pre-screening process  reviews the supplier’s management systems related  to human rights and labor topics, among other social  compliance topics. human rights screening is now formally  part	of	the	pre-qualification	and	approval	process	for 	 ingredients, packaging, co-manufacturer/co-packer,  and	licensing	manufacturing	sites.	in	 ,	 	new 	sites	 underwent human rights screening, of which four sites were  not approved; several sites are still undergoing the human  rights screening process. audit we	use	independent	third-party 	verification	tools,	 including	smeta 	 -pillar	audits , to	monitor 	compliance	 and proactively identify opportunities for future due  diligence. in our supplier program, we review and score  audit reports using an internal audit grading matrix, which  we	updated	based	on	learnings	from	the	first	two	 years	 of our supplier program and current salient human rights  and environmental risks. audit results inform follow-up  requirements	and	timelines	for 	completion. in	 ,	 we	 implemented a formal internal escalation protocol that  facilitates clear decision making across functions to ensure  efficient	and	effective	responses	to	and	remediation	of	any 	 critical or zero tolerance issues. more detailed information about our critical and zero  tolerance violations can be found in appendix a of our  supplier program guidebook.remediate hershey aims to work with suppliers that share our values.  when	instances	of	non-compliance	are	identified,	 we	 require suppliers to develop corrective action plans (cap)  that include addressing the root cause of the issues and  remediating the non-compliance. we are also committed to  collaborating and working with our suppliers on continuous  improvement.	 the	most	commonly 	identified	non- compliances are related to health and safety, working hours,  and	wages	and	benefits.	see	our 	 	non-compliance	 issues by category data table on page   for details.  we identify capability-building opportunities to enable  suppliers to achieve compliance and improve the lives  of workers.	 through our involvement with aim-progress, we  collaborate with our peers to raise the bar for responsible  sourcing in the fast-moving consumer goods supply  chain.	in	 ,	 we	provided	capacity-building	training	 to	 	suppliers	in	brazil	and	mexico.	 topics	covered	in	 these trainings included hrdd, responsible recruitment  and	labor 	rights,	health	and	safety,	and	effective	 management systems.	 we funded a training on the ethical trade initiative and  smeta	 -pillar	audits	for 	our	malaysia	plant	and	labor 	 agencies. we also provided targeted training for two  suppliers in mexico who are less experienced in social  compliance	audits	and	developing	effective	caps	 following the review 	of	their	smeta	 -pillar	audits.  we continue to track supplier performance and non- compliance trends to inform the appropriate training  resources and events to support their continuous  improvement journeys. looking ahead, we are developing  longer-term plans to improve supplier performance  through aim-progress and local ngos in-country.    the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report how we responsibly  source goods and services   top three non-  compliance issues: ❶  health, safety & hygiene ❷  working hours ❸  wages & benefits % % % we're proud of the progress  we’ve achieved in the short  time since launching new  hrdd programs, and we  see great opportunity to do  more in partnership with  our suppliers, peers and  other industry players.” bethany fitzgerald, director,  global responsible sourcing,  the hershey companytotal non-compliance issues:  ,  total audits submitted:    	the	sedex 	members	ethical	 trade	audit	(smeta)	 -pillar 	audit	protocol	is	composed	of	four 	modules:	labor 	standards	 (including human rights and forced labor topics), health and safety, environment and business ethics. how we responsibly source goods and services   continued   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report verify suppliers are required to undergo follow-up audits to verify  the closure of non-compliances and the implementation of  an	effective	cap.	supplier 	compliance	increased	to	 %	by 	 the	end	of	 ,	compared	to	 %	at	the	end	of	 .  in	 ,	 we	built	a	dashboard	to	provide	procurement	 and supplier relationship managers with real-time access  to supplier program data, including supplier progress and  performance. our team members consider this information  in	their	sourcing	 decisions	 and	supplier	discussions.	 in	 ,	 this dashboard will be formally integrated into a holistic  supplier scorecard alongside other business metrics.  → read more about our supplier program requirements on  our website.  a responsible supply chain, from end-to-end hershey-owned facilities our commitment to a responsible supply chain applies  equally to the facilities that hershey owns. we conduct  smeta	 -pillar	audits	at	all	hershey-owned	operations.	 in	 ,	 we	moved	from	a	time-based	(i.e.,	every 	three	 years) to a performance-driven cadence, which is triggered  by	smeta	 -pillar	audit	performance	and	required	non- compliance remediation. corrective action plans and  follow-up audits are required if non-compliances are  identified.	 the	most	commonly 	identified	non-compliances	 in hershey-owned operations are in the health and safety  category as seen in the data table. no instances of forced or  child	labor 	were	identified.	in	 ,	 we	will	integrate	dot’s	 and pretzel’s sites into our internal audit program.a resilient, ethical supply chain while most of the ingredients we purchase go directly  into making our beloved snacks and confections, we  also	have	a	significant	supply 	chain	for 	materials	and	 services to support our operations, managed by indirect  procurement. we strive to apply high standards for social  and environmental considerations of these purchases  as well, and have joined the indirect spend alliance to  collaborate with industry on the development of common  risk management frameworks. additionally, we promote supplier diversity as described in  more	pathways	to	 join	on	pages	 - . what’s next • continue working with suppliers to develop long- term corrective actions by providing targeted capacity  building, particularly around indicators of forced labor  and health and safety • integrate dot’s and pretzels-owned operations, labor  agencies and suppliers into our responsible sourcing  due diligence	programs	 • update our supplier code of conduct and supplier  program guidebook  • in partnership with the indirect spend alliance, test  and assess due diligence assessments and programs for  indirect supplier categories, including waste, recycling,  logistics and distribution❶ acknowledge all suppliers enrolled in the supplier  program formally acknowledge our  supplier code on an annual basis. ❷ assess suppliers complete  saqs on an annual basis  which allows hershey to  understand our suppliers’  business practices and  areas for improvement  that may require follow-up  prior to an on-site audit. ❹ remediate when instances of  non-compliance are  identiﬁed, hershey  require suppliers to  develop corrective action  plans (cap) that include  addressing the root  cause of the issues  and remediating the  non-compliance.❺ verify suppliers are required to  undergo follow-up audits  to verify the closure of  non-compliances and  the implementation of  an eﬀective cap. ❸ audit we use independent  third-party veriﬁcation  tools, including  smeta  -pillar audits,  to monitor compliance  and proactively identify  opportunities for future  due diligence.our responsible supplier program supplier code of conduct acknowledgment self-assessm entquestionnaire on-site audit supplier action plansupplier correctivefollow-up on-site auditbuilding supplier capacity   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report hershey actively works to  responsibly source priority raw  ingredients and materials for  our delicious snacks. this map  highlights many of the origin  countries from where we source  several of these resources.sourcing our priority  ingredients and materials     new   zealand  • dairymala ysia    indonesi a  • cocoa  • palm oilmexico  • cocoa   • sugar  brazil  • cocoa   • pulp and paper   • sugarghan a  • cocoa nigeria  • cocoa came roon  • cocoacôte   d’ivoire   • cocoawhere we source o ur ingre dients u.s. • dairy • eggs  • pulp and paper • sugar ecuado r  • cocoaphilippines   • coconut     • palm oilcoconut* eggs* sugarpulp and  papercocoa dairy palm oil *  coconut and eggs are not listed in hershey’s esg report as key ingredients and materials. they are  included on this map because hershey has public commitments related to sourcing both ingredients.   responsible	sourcing	ingredient	commitments	and	progress	may 	be	found	on	page	 . material esg issue: - farmer livelihoods - human rights (supply chain) -  business operations and supply  chain resilience - responsible sourcing-  ghg emissions and climate  change - deforestation - biodiversity   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report we’re promoting sustainable, resilient  agricultural communities that can  thrive. hershey	strategically 	prioritizes our 	key	ingredients	and	 materials (cocoa, dairy, sugar, palm oil, and pulp and paper  packaging)	so	 we	can	target	our 	efforts	on	those	areas	 where we can make the biggest impact while reducing  risks in our supply chain. we aim to address both social  and environmental challenges in the communities and  ecosystems from which we source our priority ingredients  and materials. our plan and approach for each ingredient  considers	a	number 	of our	material	esg	topics,	including	 human rights, farmer livelihoods, ghg emissions,  deforestation, biodiversity, water and soil health, as these  are often interrelated issues.  our priority ingredient management strategies are  underpinned by the following principles, which we updated  in	 .	 • supply chain traceability : know the origin of raw  materials to improve visibility into our supply chains and  understand opportunities for impact • supply chain monitoring and verification:  communicate our expectations to suppliers and  strengthen their sustainability management by using  third-party 	certification	and	 verification	schemes	to	 monitor performance and drive continuous improvement • origin transformation: create measurable, responsible  and sustainable transformation by investing in origin-level  programs focused on environmental, social and economic  issues  • operational excellence: utilize internal processes,  policies, training, data, technology and purchasing  practices supported by governance• external engagement: collaborate with e xternal  stakeholders to drive systemic change, as companies  cannot solve these complex sustainability challenges  alone → for a summary of our responsible sourcing ingredient data, see  page  . risk assessment refresh in	 ,	 we	refreshed	our 	risk	assessment	to	confirm	 our priority ingredients and materials and to account for  changes in our supply chain, including the acquisitions of  dot’s, pretzels and lily’s. we also considered developments  in our human rights and environmental strategies, such  as the intersection with nature and water and changes  in sustainability risks. we reviewed current human rights  data from sources including the freedom house political  freedom index, the u.s. department of labor reports  on forced and child labor and others to update country  risk scores, and updated human rights risk scores for  our ingredients by country supply chain. we updated  environmental	risk 	scores	based	on	scope	 	ghg	 emissions, and water quality and scarcity risk scores.  what’s next •  advance our strategies and make investments that  mitigate human rights and environmental risks as relevant  for all priority ingredients and materials • use insights from our refreshed risk assessment to  research opportunities to engage with industry and  make greater 	impactour priority ingredients and materials our priority ingredients and materials include cocoa, dairy,  sugar, palm oil, and pulp and paper packaging. cocoa  remains hershey’s highest priority ingredient. for more  details,	see	our 	cocoa	chapter 	which	begins	on	page	 .	 dairy during the second year of our responsible  sourcing strategy for dairy , we continued to  focus	on	two	areas:	 )	ensuring	dairy 	supplier 	 compliance with our sustainability policies and promoting  continuous	improvement	and	 )	expanding	field-level	 projects focused on ghg emissions reduction and  water quality.	 ensuring compliance our involvement in the sustainable dairy partnership (sdp)  is foundational to our interactions with our dairy suppliers.  the sdp is a holistic management system standard  and	assurance	model	 with	third-party 	data	verification	 and progress reporting. sdp also includes sustainability  requirements that must be met by dairy processors and  supplying farms. we encourage our dairy suppliers to  enroll in, undergo evaluation through and submit progress  reports to us via the sdp. we have committed to sourcing   %	of	our 	dairy	volumes	from	suppliers	enrolled	in	and	 assessed	through	the	sdp 	by	 .	at	the	end	of	 ,	  %	of	our 	volumes	 were	sourced	from	such	suppliers.	 we actively advance the mission of the sdp, as a member  of the hershey responsible sourcing team serves on the  sdp steering committee. through this initiative, we also  collaborate with other industry members, jointly tackling  collective challenges such as ghg accounting and  reporting, animal welfare, and regenerative agriculture in  the dairy industry.   	traceability is not a chain of custody concept and does not alone allow hershey to identify  the	specific	source	from	 where	the	ingredient	comes	in	a	given	hershey 	product.	climate-friendly farms in	 ,	 we	continued	to	collaborate	 with	land	o’lakes,	 our highest-volume dairy supplier and strategic partner,  and the alliance for the chesapeake bay on our three-year  pilot program, sustainable dairy pa. now in its second  year, this program aims to reduce ghg emissions and  protect water quality across dairy farms in our pennsylvania  supply chain. hershey is providing funding to support the  implementation	of	riparian	forest	buffers	and	other 	efforts	 to enhance conservation on our supplying farms. our work  in	 	included	planting	 	acres	of	riparian	buffer 	—	that’s	 over	 , 	trees	—	and	almost	a	mile	of	stream	coverage	 and fencing, among other projects. this will prevent over   , 	pounds	of	sediment,	 	pounds	of	phosphorous	 and	almost	 , 	pounds	of	nitrogen	from	entering	 waterways feeding the chesapeake bay annually. these  field-level	projects	are	also	helping	sequester 	 	metric	 tons of co e per year. in addition, in partnership with two  other suppliers, we began piloting a methane-reducing  feed additive on some of our supplying farms to further  reduce ghg emissions. our work through sustainable dairy pa and in collaboration  with our other dairy suppliers can create a more climate  resilient supply for the milk we source.  → learn more in acting on climate change on pages  - .   % of our volumes were  sourced from suppliers  enrolled in and assessed  through the sustainable  dairy programsourcing our priority ingredients and materials   continued case study improving soil health  for sugar beets healthy soil is the foundation of productive, sustainable  agriculture. we have introduced two programs that help  sugar beet producers manage soil health to reduce erosion,  maximize	 water	infiltration,	save	money 	on	inputs,	and	 ultimately improve the resiliency of their working land. in   ,	we	launched	a	pilot	project	 with	a	sugar 	supplier,	 united sugars, the soil and water outcomes fund,  and three other peer brands and customers to provide  financial	incentives	and	technical	assistance	to	some	of	our 	 sugar beet farmers to transition to on-farm regenerative  agricultural practices such as no or reduced tillage, cover  crops,	and	extended	crop	rotations.	in	the	first	 year	of	 the	program,	 , 	acres	 were	enrolled,	 with	projected	 benefits	of	sequestering	about	 , 	metric	tonnes	of	soil	 organic	carbon,	and	preventing	over 	 	tons	of	sediment,	  , 	pounds	of	phosphorous	and	 , 	pounds	of	 nitrogen from entering waterways.  we also joined a coalition of food and beverage companies  in launching the trusted advisor partnership in north  dakota, where the majority of our beet sugar is grown and  where	wind	and	 water	erosion	have	stripped	 %	of	topsoil	 in some areas. the trusted advisor partnership program  is	training	a	network 	of	certified	crop	 advisors	 versed	in	 the latest science on soil health systems who can advise  and advocate for regenerative agriculture practices among  sugar beet producers in that state. learn to grow farmer programs hershey continues to partner with our supplier american  sugar	refining	to	implement	learn	to	grow 	field	school	 programs in belize and mexico. participating farmers  learn to implement more sustainable growing practices to  holistically address environmental and social issues. by the  end	of	 : • our	program	in	mexico	reached	approximately 	 , 	 farmers	and	 , 	cane	cutters.	participants	improved	 cane	quality 	by	 %	through	reducing	extraneous	matter 	 and earned higher incomes. during activities, harvesting  group leaders were trained in health and safety practices  for cane cutters and prevention of child labor.  • in belize, our program helps farmers adapt to climate  change by using weather forecasting and pest prediction  technology. they also learn best management practices  such as environmentally-friendly biological pest control  techniques.	more	than	 , 	farmers	have	been	trained	 in and adopted the new technology platform. youth  tech coaches from the communities were integrated to  cross-train farmers on the available technology. these  farmers have applied biological pest controls to over   , 	acres,	avoiding	nearly 	 , 	kg	of	traditional	 pest control chemicals. early intervention also helped  to prevent further infestation and avoid application of  additional	chemicals.	farmers	realized	significant	savings	 by avoiding pesticide costs and production losses. in  addition, the first women farmers’ field school has been  established.	 the	first	cohort	completed	an	eight-module	 cane cultivation program integrated with agronomic  techniques,	financial	literacy 	and	health	and	safety 	 measures for workers.sugar  we focused on increasing traceability and  sustainable growing practices in our sugar  supply chain.  traceability in	 ,	 we	continued	 working	 with	our	suppliers	to	trace	 our sugar to the mill level to understand if it is linked to  areas or mills with concerns such as deforestation, water  pollution	or 	the	exploitation	of	 workers.	for 	the	year	 ,	  %	of	the	sugar 	we	purchased	 was	traceable	to	the	mill,	 and we expect a similar percentage of our volumes to be  traceable	for 	 	when	the	data	becomes	available. to gain information on the sustainability performance of  the mills and farms in our sugar supply chain, we continued  to	use	credible	third-party 	standards	and	 verification	 mechanisms, including the bonsucro and fairtrade  usa	certifications.	in	 ,	 we	sourced	 %	of	our 	sugar	 volumes	from	farms	certified	by 	or	verified	to	a	recognized	 sustainability standard or covered by bonsucro credits. this  puts	us	on	track 	to	procure	 %	of	our 	sugar	from	certified	 or	verified	sources	farms	by 	 .	for 	more	information,	 visit our sugar sourcing webpage. sustainable growing practices in	 ,	 we	also	completed	a	baseline	assessment	of	 our suppliers' sustainability and responsible sourcing  practices and	management	systems.	 the	results	are	helping	 us identify potential risks and opportunities and create  action plans to drive improvement through training and  investment.sourcing our priority ingredients and materials   continued   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report sourcing our priority ingredients and materials   continued   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report regenerative  agriculture  the	practice	of	regenerative	agriculture	offers	 exciting and multi-faceted opportunities to  achieve greater progress on a number of our  most material issues. at hershey, regenerative  agriculture includes farming practices that restore  soil and ecosystem health, and leaves our land,  waters, and climate in better shape for future  generations. we are introducing practices such as  reduced tillage and cover cropping, which have  benefits	for 	soil	health,	carbon	sequestration,	 water stewardship and biodiversity, as well as  farmer livelihoods. while regenerative agriculture  concepts are already being addressed to varying  degrees in our management plans for each priority  ingredient,	 we	are	evaluating	the	benefits	of	 expanding the integration of these principles. case study pulp and paper  pulp and paper  is integral to hershey’s business.  we use it as food packaging, wrapping,  transportation and marketing for our well-loved  brands.	following	our 	 	commitment	to	responsibly 	 source	virgin	fibers	and	recyclable	materials	for 	our	u.s.	 and	canada	operations,	 we	achieved	that	goal	in	 	by 	 obtaining	 %	of	the	pulp	and	paper 	sourced	for 	products	 from	recycled	material	or 	certified	mills.	 we	have	expanded	 that	ambition	and	are	now 	working	to	source	 %	of	 our	pulp	and	paper 	packaging	from	recycled	or 	certified	 sources	globally 	by	 .	this	begins	 with	understanding	 all of our current sources for these materials. through our  collaboration with earthworm foundation, we are now  gathering information on mill level data for our recycled and  virgin	fiber 	supply	chains	and	country 	of	harvest	data	for 	 the	virgin	fiber 	we	source;	and	are	analyzing	our 	exposure	to	 deforestation, forest degradation and social conflicts. we are guided by our responsible pulp & paper sourcing  policy,	which	we	updated	in	 	to	reflect	this	expanded	 commitment. to provide transparency, we continue to  publish our list of pulp and paper suppliers and mill groups  that supply to our global operations.our first forest footprint in	a	new	step,	we	engaged	the	nonprofit	earthworm  foundation to map our forest footprints for our palm supply  chain in the north sumatra and aceh districts of indonesia,  following the rainforest action network’s methodology.  this analysis enabled us to identify areas of forest, peat and  customary land at risk of palm expansion inside and outside  concessions.	 this	is	part	of	a	larger 	collaborative	effort	 with two other global companies and earthworm. we are  jointly exploring possible actions for civil society and local  community partners to protect the standing forests that  are outside of palm concessions and at risk for commodity  expansion.  through the palm oil collaboration group’s independent  verification	 working	group, we convene with other brands,  traders, producers and ngos. together, we explore the  most	effective	approaches	to	independent	 verification,	 including emerging techniques such as satellite monitoring  of land-use change and real-time collection of information  from workers via mobile apps.  promoting transformation we continue to invest in landscape collective actions  in indonesia and malaysia which are implemented by  earthworm foundation. these on-the-ground programs  focus on the protection and restoration of forests and  biodiversity, smallholder inclusion, respect for human rights,  ndpe capacity building and the resilience and livelihoods  of local palm-growing communities. for more information on our palm oil supplier engagement,  monitoring	and	 verification	 work,	and	landscape	 transformation project investments, visit our palm oil  sourcing webpage.palm oil  hershey is committed to the highest standards  in responsible and sustainable palm oil  sourcing. as stated in our responsible palm  oil sourcing policy , our goals are to source palm oil that is   %	responsibly 	grown	and	 %	traceable	to	the	mill	and	 plantation.	it	must	be	physically 	certified	by 	the	roundtable	 on sustainable palm oil (rspo), and must not contribute  to deforestation or peatland destruction while respecting  and protecting the human rights of individuals and local  communities. we also look to the accountability framework  initiative (afi) guidelines. to achieve our objectives, we  maintain and expand relationships with our suppliers and  key industry partners.  in	 ,	 we	once	again	achieved	our 	 %	rspo	 certification	goal	and	 %	traceability 	goal	to	the	mill	 level.	we	remain	committed	to	achieving	 %	traceability 	 to plantation	level,	reaching	 . %	by 	end	 ,	and	expect	 to accomplish	this	goal	by 	 . we took several actions to verify that our palm oil supply  chain does not contribute to deforestation, while respecting  and protecting human rights. for the second year, we  conducted a deforestation assessment of all our suppliers  using	mill	lists	from	mid-year 	 	to	mid-year 	 ,	 which	verified	 %	of	our 	volume	as	deforestation-free.	 we work closely with all our palm suppliers to investigate  deforestation events. following our palm oil grievance process, we continue to  publicly disclose our palm oil grievance log with monthly  updates on no deforestation, no peat, no exploitation  (ndpe) violations found within our supply chain. as  of	december 	 ,	we	suspended	 	suppliers	in	our 	 upstream supply chain, none of whom supplied us directly,  for ndpe violations. we have not yet granted re-entry to  any	of	these	suppliers.	in	 ,	 we	suspended	five	indirect	 palm oil operations due to allegations of potential negative  environmental and/or social impacts.   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report our progress responsible sourcing and human rights target y earprogress (as of dec.  ,   ) goal status notes  % of priority ingredients and materials to be responsibly and sustainably  sourced (by volume)   % on track    % of in scope supplier sites meet hershey’s responsible sourcing supplier  program requirements   % on track —  	this	result	represents	the	percentage	by 	volume	of	hershey’s	five	priority 	ingredients,	 which	met	our 	definition	of	responsibly 	and	sustainably 	sourced	in	 .	 this	definition	 varies	by 	ingredient	and	is	 subject	to	change	as	hershey’s	responsible	sourcing	programs	evolve.	more	information	may 	be	found	in	the	responsible	sourcing	ingredient	commitments	and	progress	table	on	page	 .goals kpis engagement on human rights unit       notes worker engagement surveys completed # of engagement  surveys    not available — workers and farmers surveyed during worker engagement surveys # of workers and  farmers surveyed ,    not available — hershey employees who have taken human rights training and passed %  %  % not available   hershey employees who have completed human rights training # of employees more than  ,   ,  not available    	this	data	represents	the	human	rights	module	of	our 	code	of	conduct	training,	and	is	required	annually 	for	professional	employees	on	a	rolling	 -month	cycle. kpis   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report responsible recruitment program unit       notes labor agencies enrolled in responsible recruitment program #         labor agency enrollment by hershey site location brazil #       — india #       — malaysia #       — mexico #       — u.s. and canada #       — labor agency enrollment by category contingent labor providers (manufacturing) #       — contract packaging #       — labor service providers #       — progress on responsible recruitment program requirements responsible recruitment and employment policy acknowledgment %	completed  %  %  % — saq %	completed  %  %  %   saq corrective action plan %	completed  %  %  %   saq noncompliances corrected and closed %    % not available    	the	responsible	recruitment	program	applies	to	all	labor 	agencies	that	provide	contingent	labor 	or	labor	services	to	hershey 	owned	and	operated	offices	and	manufacturing	sites.   saq	requests	 were	made	during	the	second	half	of	 .		 two	pending	saq	caps	are	 with	labor 	agencies	and	are	requiring	additional	support	to	complete	and	provide	required	documentation.  	due	to	the	timing	of	our 	 	saq	requests,	none	of	the	identified	non-compliances	 were	corrected	or 	closed	in	 .		 we	are	actively 	engaged	 with	labor 	agencies	 who	have	not	completed	required	documentation. kpis   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report responsible sourcing supplier program (supplier program)       suppliers and manufacturing sites enrolled in supplier program       enrollment of manufacturing sites and audits performed by location# of  manufacturing  sites enrolled and  subject to audit# of audits  performed# of  manufacturing  sites enrolled and  subject to audit# of audits  performed# of  manufacturing  sites enrolled and  subject to audit# of audits  performed africa             brazil             china             europe             india             malaysia             mexico             north america (u.s. and canada)             rest of asia             rest of latin america             enrollment of manufacturing sites and audits performed by supplier category# of  manufacturing  sites enrolled and  subject to audit# of audits  performed# of  manufacturing  sites enrolled and  subject to audit# of audits  performed# of  manufacturing  sites enrolled and  subject to audit# of audits  performed contract manufacturing and contract packaging             ingredients and raw materials             licensing             packaging             the hershey experience, world travel retail and indirect               the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report people demographics at manufacturing sites where audits were conducted (as  documented in the audit reports)       total workers at manufacturing sites  ,   ,   ,  female workers  ,   ,   ,  male workers  ,   ,   ,  domestic and international migrant workers  ,   ,   ,  supplier program audit results unit       audits submitted in reporting year # of audits       non-compliance results total # of non- compliance results ,      non-compliances corrected and closed #       minor non-conformances total	findings %  . %  . %  . % nonconformance rate rate  .   .   .  total	findings	corrected	and	closed %  . %  . %  . % moderate non-conformances total	findings %  . %  . %  . % nonconformance rate rate  .   .   .  total	findings	corrected	and	closed %  . %  . %  . % major non-conformances total	findings %  . %  . %  . % nonconformance rate rate  .   .   .  total	findings	corrected	and	closed %  . %  . %  . % note: at hershey, major nonconformances include issues rated as critical or zero-tolerance issues.kpis kpis   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report   non-compliance issues by category non-compliance issue category (# and  %	of	total	non-compliances) 	child labor &  young workersindicators of  forced laborharassment &  discriminationfreedom of  association  and collective  bargainingwages &  benefits working hourshealth, safety &  hygiene environmentmanagement  systems land rights business ethics   ( %)   ( %)   ( %)   ( %)   ( %)   ( %)   ( %)   ( %)   ( %)   ( . %)   ( %) average	number 	of	non-compliance	issues	per 	audit	(non-compliance	rate	=	number 	of	non-compliance	issues	by 	category 	identified	in	a	location's	 	audit	reports	/	total	#	of	location's	 	audit	reports) africa  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  brazil  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  china  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  europe  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  india  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  malaysia  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  mexico  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  north america  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  rest of asia  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  rest of latin america  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  kpis   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report responsible sourcing ingredient commitments & progress ingredient commitment goal       notes total food ingredients percentage	of	food	ingredients	sourced	(by 	cost)	certified	to	third-party 	 environmental and/or social standards (e.g., fair trade usa, rainforest alliance,  rspo and bonsucro)n/a  %  %  % — cocoa source	independently 	verified	cocoa	(by 	volume)	through:	fair 	trade	usa,	 rainforest	 alliance	(utz)	and	 verified	supplier 	program	standards	meeting	 international criteria %	by 	 	 achieved %  %  % — sourcing	 visibility	of	hershey's	cocoa	 volume	in	côte	d'ivoire	and	ghana  %	by 	 	 on track %  %  % — dairy source dairy volumes from suppliers enrolled in and assessed through the sdp  %	by 	  on track %  %  % — sugar achieve traceability to the mill (by volume)  %	by 	  on trackdata pending  %  %   procure	sugar 	(by	volume)	from	sources	certified	or 	verified	to	a	recognized	 sustainability standard covering the farm level %	by 	  on track %  %  % — palm sourcing	rspo-certified	material	(by 	volume)  %	by 	  achieved %  %  %   achieve	 %	traceability 	to	the	mill  %	by 	  achieved %  %  . % — achieve traceability to plantation  %	by 	  on track . %  . %  . % — achieve	a	 verified	deforestation-free	palm	supply 	chain  %	by 	  on track %  % not applicable   pulp and paper source	pulp	and	paper 	packaging	(by 	volume)	from	recycled	or 	certified	sources	 globally %	by 	  on track %  . % not applicable   coconut source	certified	coconut	(by 	volume)	through	fair 	trade	usa  %	by 	  achieved %  %  %   eggs source	certified	cage-free	eggs	(by 	volume)	for 	the	u.s.	and	canadian	markets	 from cage-free farms that are in accordance with the american humane  certified	program %	by 	  achieved %  %  % — source	certified	cage-free	eggs	(by 	volume)	globally  %	by 	  no eggs or egg products  were sourced from  international regions in   . no eggs or egg products  were sourced from  international	regions	in	 %    	data	for	 	will	be	published	in	 .   in	 ,	hershey 	sourced	(by 	volume)	 %	as	rspo	segregated	and	 %	as	rspo	mass	balance.		one	percent	 was	covered	by 	rspo	credits	due	to	limited	 volumes	of	certified	palm	kernel	oil.  	the	 	 verified	deforestation-free	palm	supply 	chain	results	are	based	on	mill	lists	from	mid-year 	 	to	mid-year 	 .	volumes	 were	verified	as	deforestation-free	through	 airbus	and	earthworm	foundation’s	starling	satellite.  	data	is	not	available	for 	 	as	 	is	hershey’s	first	 year	of	tracking	and	reporting	this	result.  	in	 ,	hershey 	sourced	a	small	quantity 	of	conventional,	non-certified	coconut	due	to	a	severe	coconut	shortage	related	to	issues	 with	raw	material	sourcing	and	transportation	complications	caused	by 	the	ongoing	pandemic   in	 ,	hershey’s	reached	 %	cage-free	egg	compliance	globally 	–	three	years	ahead	of	our 	original	 	deadline.		 we	will	continue	utilizing	 %	cage-free	eggs	for 	any	potential	product	offerings	regardless	of	market. doing good by the planet is not just about doing  the right thing; it’s good business. climate change, natural resource scarcity and extreme  weather are some of the serious environmental issues that  pose challenges to both society and to hershey, from our  supply chain to our manufacturing facilities. our ability  to become a leading snacking powerhouse rests in part  on our ability to navigate these external factors and take  action to mitigate risks. we face environmental issues that  are vast and complex. they cannot be solved in isolation  and require collective action by governments, businesses,  non-governmental organizations (ngos) and multilateral  organizations. hershey is committed to doing our part to  create positive change, safeguarding our planet and our  business for continued success in the decades to come. from careful stewardship of energy and greenhouse gas  emissions, to reducing our packaging waste and water  stewardship, our goal is to put more goodness inside the  products people love.  environment      contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report acting on climate change   we seek to reduce our emissions and do our part to  meet the	paris	 agreement	adopted	at	the	united	nations	 climate	change	conference	(cop ).	 as	we	look	to	 the future, our climate approach is fully aligned to and  integrated within our company strategy to be a leading  snacking powerhouse. we view climate action as an  imperative for the future of hershey, our customers and  the communities in which we operate. thus, our climate  approach is increasingly integrated into the way we do  business. from how we manage our own facilities and the  way we procure our ingredients to our participation in ghg  reduction alongside external partners, our organization  is aligned and working toward a more sustainable  future, together.  at hershey, we take a thoughtful approach, setting  aggressive but achievable goals, and mapping out a holistic  strategy to get us where we need to be. as we take action,  we monitor and measure our performance, engaging  all levels of the business from our board to the factory  floor, and incorporate input and feedback from externally  interested stakeholders.  hershey is participating in global actions to reduce our  contributions to climate change because we believe in the  need for bold action. through our climate action, we’re  also improving watershed health, promoting biodiversity  habitat, and restoring and protecting soils. the results of our  climate scenario planning have yielded actionable insights,  which we are using to press on toward our goals. → to learn more about our climate scenario planning insights,  read our full   task force on climate-related financial  disclosures (tcfd) report.the challenges of climate  change are growing faster than  ever before. we are continually  working to embed stronger  sustainable business practices  to ensure long-term business  resilience and success. climate strategy our climate strategy is multi-faceted and powered  by two key drivers: reducing our carbon footprint and  understanding and managing our climate risk.  reduce our footprint  we have set ambitious, science-based ghg reduction  goals	to	reduce	our 	absolute	scope	 	and	scope	 	(market- based)	emissions	by 	 %	and	our 	absolute	scope	 	 emissions	by 	 %	by	 	against	a	 	baseline.	our 	 emissions reduction targets have been approved by the  science based targets initiative (sbti) and are consistent  with levels required to meet the most ambitious goals of the  paris agreement. the targets covering emissions from our  operations are aligned with reduction requirements to limit  warming	to	 . °c	globally 	and	prevent	the	 worst	effects	of	 climate change for us and for the planet. to achieve these  goals, we are shifting the way we run our business to reduce  our climate footprint.  in line with our core value of excellence, we chose to adhere  to sbti as a rigorous, external tool for executing part of our  climate	strategy.	independently 	verified,	the	sbti	provides	 clear guidance and helps us map a demonstrable path  toward meaningful reductions in our own operations and  in our	supply	chain,	in	line	 with	what	the	 world	needs.	our   emissions breakdown  we measure our carbon footprint following the  standards of the greenhouse gas (ghg) protocol.  our	scope	 	(owned	or 	controlled	sources)	and	scope	  	(indirect	emissions)	comprise	approximately 	 %	of	 our	total	emissions.	 %	of	our 	total	greenhouse	gas	 (ghg)	emissions	come	from	scope	 	emissions;	in	 particular those related to agricultural ingredients  such as cocoa, dairy and sugar.  hershey’s	 	scope	 	and	scope	 	data	received	 limited assurance by ernst & young (ey) (see pages   - 	for 	our	limited	assurance	statement).	our 	  	scope	 	data	has	been	independently 	verified	 by	quantis	(see	pages	 - 	for 	our	verification	 letter).why it matters the growing frequency and severity of  extreme weather events, plus increased heat  and	water	shortages,	are	affecting	the	lives	 and livelihoods of millions around the world,  including the farmers and communities  who grow the ingredients we depend on.  these climate-related impacts are growing  in their potential to disrupt our operations,  threatening	communities	and influencing	 the cost and availability of our ingredients  and raw materials. within hershey and across  broader society, there is a growing urgency  to mitigate and adapt to these changes. material esg issue: - ghg emissions and climate change - energy management  . %  . % ❶  scope   (owned or controlled sources) ❷   scope   (indirect emissions from   purchased electricity) ❸  scope   (value chain emissions) %   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report progress towards meeting our ghg goal as we work to embed our ghg targets and action plans  into our growing business — we also continue to learn,  adapt and build the foundation for our carbon reduction  journey. building and operationalizing climate action  plans will not be a linear process as we continue to expand  our portfolio and business, navigate new ways of working  and an evolving carbon accounting landscape, as well as  evaluate and implement new programs. in	 ,	 we	experienced	some	regression	in	our 	ghg	 performance	across	all	scopes.	in	scope	 	and	scope	 ,	 we	 moved	from	 %	progress	against	target	in	 	to	 %	 progress	in	 .	in	scope	 ,	 we	moved	from	 %	progress	 towards	our 	target	in	 	to	 %	progress	in	 .	 these	 changes	are	primarily 	attributed	to	significant	company 	 growth (including m&a activity). in addition, during   	we	instituted	methodological	changes	in	carbon	 accounting such as updated emission factors to align with  the latest science. we are continually working to increase  our visibility and accuracy through improved data sources  and	supplier 	relationships.	 as	we	approach	the	five-year 	 mark	of	joining	the	sbti,	 we	are	preparing	for 	our	first	re- baseline	of	our 	ghg	targets,	to	take	place	in	 .	 these	 efforts,	which	have	been	overseen	 via	our	partnership	 with	 quantis, are critical to helping us ensure we have the right  data to inform strategies, invest resources in the highest  impact opportunity areas, and credibly drive progress. due  to the timing of our re-baseline, we show some irregularities  in this year’s esg disclosure compared to our disclosure  in	 .	footnotes	throughout	the	data	tables	are	used	to	 provide transparency on notable variances.  understand and manage risk we undertook preliminary climate scenario planning as a  tool to understand the multi-faceted impacts of climate  change including the intersections with water on our  activities	and	operations.	 we	are	using	the	findings	to	 inform company strategy and planning through mitigation  and adaptation to help ensure our long-term business  resilience and success.  → learn more in managing climate risk on page    and in our   tcfd report.   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report acting on climate change   continued energy efficiency boosting	energy 	efficiency,	particularly 	in	the	use	of	 electricity 	and	natural	gas,	is	a	core	part	of	our 	scope	 	and	 	 emissions reduction plan.  these	efforts	are	managed	by 	our	engineering	and	supply 	 chain functions and are overseen by our new energy and  water management steering committee. this group  sets energy targets, tracks water usage and facilitates  the business integration needed to drive visibility and  accountability for action and results. this involves making  utility data visible and actionable, understanding energy  and water usage patterns, securing capital investments,  and engaging teams in understanding opportunities for  optimization. improving our operational emissions footprint includes  dynamic management, year-on-year improvements, and  using digital and other technologies and capabilities to  support	this.	for 	example,	 we	are	investing	$ 	million	in	 reporting systems that provide real-time utility usage data  for electricity, natural gas and water at each of our facilities  globally. these systems were installed in u.s. facilities in   ,	with	the	remainder 	to	be	installed	in	international	 facilities	during	 .	 we	expect	access	to	real-time	utility 	 usage data will allow us to take actions to reduce our energy  intensity 	by	approximately 	 %	over 	the	next	five	 years	 and uncover additional energy saving opportunities. by  harnessing the power and visibility of data, we are enabling  our employees to tangibly contribute to our goals. we are beginning to incorporate sustainability into our  design	requirements	and	including	energy 	efficiency 	as	 a required consideration in our future choices for new  production lines and equipment change outs. in addition,  we continue our actions to limit and, when possible, remove  carbon-intensive fuels, such as coal, at our facilities. for  example, we transitioned from coal to rice husks as biofuel  within	our 	india	plant	during	 .	to spur further progress and innovation, we participate  in two voluntary national energy programs, u.s. epa's  energy star®  challenge for industry and u.s.  department of energy's better buildings, better plants  program, which provide ideas, inspiration and motivation  for	our	energy	management	efforts.	in	addition,	our 	 partnerships strengthen insights to emerging technologies  and	innovative	strategies.	 as	of	december 	 ,	we	 have improved the energy intensity at our hershey  manufacturing	sites	by 	 . %	compared	to	a	 	baseline.	 for additional details, see the energy consumption data  table	on	page	 .  through these initiatives, we are not only reducing our  energy use and costs, but also recognizing and empowering  our	plant	teams	 who	are	on	the	front	lines	of	these	efforts.	 energy champions at hershey manufacturing locations  around the world rally their teams to help implement  energy and water saving projects, meet conservation goals,  and identify further opportunities for energy and water  reduction	and	efficiency. gaining improvements across our real estate portfolio  management of our real estate portfolio is another avenue  for reducing our internal emissions. we are leaning into  the u.s. green building council® leadership in energy &  environmental design (leed) green building program as a  way to moderate our impact as we grow and as an enabler  of future growth. green building design is a consideration in  all of hershey’s new construction projects. for example, we  aim	to	achieve	leed	certification	at	our 	new	manufacturing	 facility in derry township, pennsylvania, announced in   ;	and	have	already 	achieved	leed	gold®	at	our 	 company headquarters in hershey, pennsylvania, and  green building index gold rating at our plant in malaysia.  → learn more about our manufacturing growth in a bold strategy  for growth on pages  - .reducing ghg emissions  in our operations a plan to manage and reduce our carbon  emissions is embedded in our leading  snacking powerhouse strategy.   emissions performance — scope   and    our goal is to achieve a  % absolute reduction in  scope   and   ghg emissions by   against a    baseline. two main drivers will enable our sbti-aligned  ghg	emission	reduction	goal,	energy 	efficiency 	and	 renewables, that take into account projected growth of  our company. our year-on-year progress will not always be direct and  in	 	we	experienced	some	regression	in	our 	emissions	 performance. the growth of our business as a result of  recent m&a contributed to this regression. we are working  to integrate our new acquisitions into our energy intensity  and water reduction programs. as we continue to grow  our business through future mergers and acquisitions,  we	will	be	an	effective	steward	of	these	new 	assets	as	 we	 integrate our expertise and strategies to meet our carbon  reduction	goals.	 we	are	confident	in	our 	ability	to	deliver 	on	 our long-term plans to reduce emissions, which have been  developed to align with our corporate strategy and growth  plans	over 	the	next	 	 years. we are strengthening our ghg accounting as evidenced  by obtaining limited assurance from ey (see our ey limited  assurance	statement	on	pages	 - ).	moving	to	limited	 assurance led to important cross-functional work between  our global sustainability, internal audit, finance and  legal functions, putting in place the critical foundation  of controls, procedures and impact measurement that is  necessary to meet our ambitious ghg targets and long- term corporate strategy. renewable energy  increasing use of renewable energy is a critical element  in	our	scope	 	reduction	plan.	in	 ,	 we	sourced	 %	 of our electricity consumption from renewable and zero  emission	sources.	 we	announced	a	 -megawatt	power 	 purchase agreement (ppa) with national grid renewables  for the copperhead solar & storage project in falls county,  texas. this utility-scale solar project represents hershey’s  third	ppa 	and	is	scheduled	to	come	online	in	 .	 the	 project	is	expected	to	produce	an	estimated	$ 	million	 in	direct	economic	impact	throughout	its	first	 	 years	of	 operation, including the production of new tax revenue,  on-site operations jobs and the creation of a charitable fund  estimated	at	$ , .	 through	these	ppas,	 we	access	 clean and renewable energy while creating local jobs and  generating	significant	power 	for	the	communities	 where	 they are located. hershey	received	more	than	 , 	renewable	energy 	 credits	(recs)	for 	 .	 we directly source renewable energy for our manufacturing  facilities in canada, brazil and india. our facilities in brazil  and canada obtain energy from hydropower and solar, and  our	facility	in	india	sources	approximately 	 %	solar 	energy.	 we also have zero-emissions credits from nuclear energy,  another	zero-emission	power 	source,	helping	us	fill	the	gap	 until additional solar facilities come online.   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report  nature-based solutions, including  protecting forests and promoting  regenerative agriculture will help to  combat climate change.  our	goal	is	to	achieve	 %	absolute	reduction	in	scope	 	 ghg	emissions	by 	 	against	a	 	baseline.	in	 ,	 we	regressed	in	progress	towards	our 	scope	 	emissions	 goal largely due to an increase in purchased goods and  services.	 to	continue	to	advance	our 	scope	 	goal,	 we	 are	developing	detailed	climate	road	maps	 with	specific,	 measurable and time-bound actions across our largest  emission sources: our cocoa, dairy and sugar supply chains,  and logistics, among others. we’re also identifying and  implementing measures to reduce emissions in other  scope	 	categories.	our 	two	key	levers	are	reducing	land	 use change by eliminating deforestation and reducing  emissions from farms by improving on-farm sustainability.  we	are	excited	about	some	of	the	early 	projects	identified	 to make meaningful reductions in our supply chain, but this  work is still in the design and pilot phases.  understanding the unique footprint of hershey’s supply  chain is critical to building a robust reduction strategy that  can be accurately measured. one of the most important  steps	we	took	in	 	 was	shifting	to	greater 	precision	 in	our	scope	 	emissions	accounting	by 	improving	data	 sources	and	including	more	supplier 	specific	emissions	 factors in dairy commodities.  solving daunting issues such as reducing emissions in a  complex value chain requires collaboration. we continue  to listen to suppliers, partners and climate experts to  understand obstacles and identify the most meaningful  actions to address these challenges. we are prioritizing the most important levers to invest in  by	modeling	the	carbon	reduction	potential	of	identified	 actions. in addition, we assess feasibility through follow- up conversations with farming communities and with  internal stakeholders to ensure alignment with our business  strategy. this process of stakeholder engagement enhances  the quality, success and long-term permanence of  interventions in the value chain where we depend on, and  leverage, coordinated approaches toward shared goals.  we’re still early in our journey; meaningful action takes  time. we know we don't have all the answers, and our work  continues, but are proud of the progress made so far in  scope	 	engagement. deforestation-free ingredients addressing deforestation resulting from land use change  is	a	significant	part	of	our 	climate	action	plans	for 	reducing	 our	scope	 	 value	chain	emissions.	 we	have	committed	to	 eliminating commodity-driven deforestation from our entire  supply	chain	by 	 .	in	cocoa,	 we	will	continue	to	source	 only	 %	independently 	verified	cocoa	and	 work	toward	 our	commitment	to	achieve	 %	sourcing	 visibility	in	côte	 d’ivoire	and	ghana	by 	 .	the	hershey 	company’s	no  deforestation policy  further assists us in achieving this  goal across multiple commodities. we are building long- term relationships with known farmer groups, providing  resources and education on sustainable farming and driving  traceability to halt deforestation. we also engage in multi- stakeholder planning to implement meaningful actions  toward our targets and advancing sustainability within our  value chain.  → learn more in protecting the environment on pages  -  and in  our priority ingredients and materials on pages  - . reducing emissions  in our value chain scope   emissions food waste / waste from operations   . % /  . % fuel & energy-related activities /   business travel, commuting  % /  % co-manufacturing  % packaging  %logistics (upstream   & downstream)  % cocoa  % dairy  %specialty  % palm / soy  % /  % nuts  % sugar  %corn  %  %  of hershey's scope    emissions come  from agriculture*   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report *	totals	shown	do	not	equal	 %	due	to	rounding  farming in harmony with nature hershey is strengthening on-farm sustainability practices  and carbon removal through techniques such as  regenerative agriculture and tree planting. for example,  hershey is conducting a pilot with our largest dairy supplier,  land o’lakes, and the alliance for the chesapeake bay  to make on-farm improvements to reduce emissions  and improve water quality across the chesapeake bay  watershed. many of the sustainable agriculture projects  have	stacked	benefits	by 	promoting	nature’s	nutrient	 and water cycles. we’re exploring additional uses of  regenerative agricultural practices in collaboration with  other partners and suppliers, including pilot projects with  sugar beet farmers in minnesota and north dakota.  → learn more in improving soil health for sugar beets on page  . cocoa climate road map:  a clear path forward cocoa	is	a	key 	element	of	our 	overall	scope	 	reduction	 strategy	and	fundamental	to	achieving	our 	 %	emission	 reduction target. it is critical that we maximize the carbon  sequestration potential of nature by planting trees to  permanently remove high volumes of carbon from the  atmosphere and by protecting forests. hence, our key  drivers for emissions reductions in cocoa are ensuring  deforestation-free sourcing and implementing agroforestry  projects in cocoa-growing communities in our supply chain. we prioritized the development of a cocoa climate  road	map	during	 ,	collaborating	 with	more	than	  	suppliers	and	partners	to	ensure	 we	developed	a	 holistic action plan. in coordination with suppliers, we  have partnered with pur, a global leader in nature-based  solutions,	to	undertake	feasibility 	assessments	in	 	to	 design farmer-centered agroforestry projects with selected  communities	in	côte d’ivoire,	 with	the	aim	to	start	tree	 planting	in	 .	case study our cocoa climate road map  deforestation-free cocoa farm-based carbon removal why it  matterspreserving healthy forests is the single most  important tool to decarbonize our cocoa supply  chain.tree planting at farms is recognized as the best  solution for carbon removal because it mitigates  both potential future and historical impacts of  deforestation. agroforestry has complementary  benefits	such	as	improving	farmer 	livelihoods	and	 building resiliency to climate shocks. our  actionswe’re addressing and reducing direct land use  change through partnerships and supplier programs.we’re engaging in farm-based projects with suppliers  of	our	five	priority 	ingredients	(i.e.,	cocoa,	dairy,	sugar,	 palm oil, and pulp and paper). our climate road  maps	for 	each	ingredient	 will	direct	our 	efforts	toward	 specific	milestones	and	targets.	 learn  moreread	protecting	the	environment	on	pages	 - . read our priority ingredients and materials on  pages  - .	   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report reducing emissions in our value chain   continued our approach to climate  action is about more than  just carbon. it’s about  investing in solutions that  have compounding benefits  to address our generation’s  greatest challenges.” matt silveira, manager,  environmental sustainability, the hershey  company   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report managing climate risk  we	also	identified	transition	risks,	such	as	competition	for,	 and rising costs of, sustainably sourced ingredients, and the  potential implications of a carbon tax. hershey has systems to monitor and respond to acute  climate crises. for longer-term evolving risks, such  as those presented by climate change, we utilize our  enterprise risk management (erm) program. to improve  our understanding of how climate change is, and could,  impact our business, now and in the future, we are  exploring ways to integrate these risk insights into the  business. these conversations have led to a preliminary  determination of the value at risk in dairy sourcing based  on	how	the	risk	could	be	managed.	 we	have	identified	 how climate resiliency overlaps within our sbti strategy  to reduce emissions in dairy and have begun to evaluate  if these actions are enough to address the plausible risk  to dairy supply in the future. we are engaged in ongoing  conversations	to	refine	potential	scenarios	to	assess	supply 	 trajectories, develop mitigation strategies and understand  financial	impacts.	 the water-climate connection our analysis clearly spotlighted the fundamental link  between climate change and water challenges. modeling  showed that physical risks, including extreme temperatures,  drought and water stress, are projected to escalate across  a range of global ghg concentration scenarios during the   s.	tackling	 water	challenges	as	part	of	our 	climate	 strategy is essential as climate change exacerbates risks  to all things that depend on nature (e.g., agriculture),  while healthy ecosystems are key for climate mitigation  and adaptation. our initial water risk and opportunities  assessment helped to identify priority areas as we develop  climate adaptation strategies. we are combining the  insights from our water risk assessment with our climate  scenario	 work.	together,	these	findings	are	helping	us	to	strengthen our mitigation and adaptation strategies, and  enabling us to enhance our business resilience and prepare  for future conditions. for example, at the ingredient level,  we are exploring how we might use the insights gained to  inform our dairy procurement risk management processes.  we’re evaluating the ability of our work with sustainable  dairy pa to create a more climate resilient supply for our  fluid milk sourced from pennsylvania. we are also studying  the impact on our cocoa and almond supply chains and how  investments	identified	in	climate	road	maps	can	help	buffer 	 against climate shocks and improve supply chain resilience.  → to learn more about our climate-related risks and our actions to  address them, read our   tcfd report. what’s next • continue to execute on our sbti goals and build climate  resiliency further into our priority ingredient climate  road maps • implement a work plan with a deforestation monitoring  solutions service provider to monitor, verify and address  deforestation in our forest-risk commodities, i.e., cocoa,  palm, pulp and paper, and soy • continue to review and update our  no deforestation  policy  to stay aligned with best practices and helps us  achieve our goalswe’re preparing for the future by  planning and taking action today.  as a company that depends on agricultural commodities  grown all over the world, we are acutely aware of the risks  that climate change, natural resource scarcity and extreme  weather pose to our business. we have begun to undertake  climate	scenario	planning	to	understand	the	future	financial	 and operational risks that climate change presents to our  organization. we have purposefully chosen to complete  this analysis internally so that we can build our acumen  of	how	this	affects	our 	business.	 we	use	rigorous	external	 tools, such as the climate service (tcs), now a part of  s&p global, which provides a science-backed climate risk  analytics platform to help us identify and measure climate  risk in our assets, business and investment portfolio.  we also worked in partnership with quantis, a leading  sustainability consultancy.	 in	 	we	took	our	first	steps	to	conduct	climate	scenario	 planning, including qualitative and quantitative research,  and completed our initial risk modeling. we plan to build  on these preliminary climate scenario planning activities  to further sharpen our approach in determining the most  effective	climate	change	mitigation	strategies.	 what we learned our	climate	scenario	planning	efforts	have	facilitated	 initial conversations to begin preparing for plausible  climate futures.	 the	most	significant	physical	risks	revealed	by 	our	analysis	 are disruption and uncertainty within our supply chain.  we	can	expect	 )	increases	in	unforeseeable	circumstances	 that	prevent	suppliers	from	timely 	fulfillment	of	contracts	 due to extreme weather events,  ) increases in droughts  impacting	crop	 yields,	and	 )	extreme	 weather	events	such	 as freezes, floods, hurricanes and tornadoes that could  damage or shut down hershey facilities. material esg issue: packaging and end-of-life   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report making progress on packaging we’re eliminating unnecessary  packaging and converting to more eco- friendly alternatives to create a more  sustainable future while keeping the  goodness inside: quality, safety and a  satisfying consumer experience. in order to reduce the potential negative impacts of  plastic	waste	and	 waste	sent	to	landfills,	 we	are	reducing	 unnecessary materials and increasing recyclability across  our packaging portfolio. these actions also help us drive  toward greater packaging circularity.  sustainable packaging requires a holistic approach  that balances safety and quality, consumer needs,  manufacturing and distribution requirements. our priority is  to make sure hershey packaging continues to deliver high- quality and safe, consumable products to our customers. in  addition to increasing our proportion of more sustainable  materials, we are eliminating unnecessary packaging  and ensuring responsible sourcing. these actions play an  important	part	in	reducing	our 	scope	 	ghg	emissions.	 to achieve our goal, over the next several years we will  make	significant	investments	to	qualify 	and	convert	over 	  , 	items	across	all	of	our 	manufacturing	facilities	to	 new packaging with updated labeling that will educate  consumers on its recyclable components. our partnerships  with suppliers and industry trade groups are critical, as they  extend	and	enrich	our 	efforts.	 eliminating pvc we are near completion to eliminating hard-to-recycle  pvc from our global packaging portfolio. as of december   ,	 ,	 we	had	qualified	alternatives	for 	 %	of	the	pvc	 in our packaging supply chain and are nearing full global  conversion to non-pvc alternatives. improving recyclability  we	remain	focused	on	our 	commitment	to	achieve	 %	of	 plastic packaging to be recyclable, reusable or compostable  by	 .	hershey 	syrup	bottles,	syrup	caps	and	other 	 pet	jars	and	pails	comprise	the	 %	of	hershey’s	plastic	 packaging from north american produced products that  we currently consider to be recyclable.  while we continue to make progress against this  commitment, eliminating plastic packaging requires  overcoming several hurdles. these challenges include  limited recycling infrastructure, low consumer engagement  and understanding of recycling, and lack of recyclable  solutions for all applications.  in particular, we are hindered  by	an	insufficient	reliable	supply 	of	food	grade	material	 due to limitations in infrastructure, reclaim, sorting and  processing. as infrastructure is created to recapture and  maintain a predictable supply of food-contact grade  materials, we will consider the best target-setting and  reporting approach. using recycled materials in addition, we continue to drive circularity by using more  recycled materials across our portfolio. one example is  the redesign of our hershey’s chocolate syrup multi- pack carriers,	 which	are	now 	made	from	 %	post- consumer recycled content. this change eliminates  nearly	 , 	pounds	of	 virgin	high-density 	polyethylene	 annually.	in	another 	example,	in	 ,	 we	converted	 additional	cases	to	 %	recycled	corrugate	for 	a	total	of	  	cases	converted.	 these	conversions	drove	significant	 impact	in	 ,	equating	to saving	more	than	 , 	 hours	of	electricity,	more	than	 , 	trees,	nearly 	 . 	 million gallons of water, and a reduction of approximately   , 	metric	tons	of	co 	emissions.eliminating packaging we continue to build on our success in reducing packaging  waste	sent	to	landfills.	 we	achieved	our 	initial	goal	to	 eliminate	 	million	pounds	of	packaging	in	 ,	five	 years ahead of schedule. we have since expanded our  commitment	to	eliminate	an	additional	 	million	pounds	 of	packaging	by 	 ,	and	eliminated	over 	 	million	pounds	 of	material	in	 	alone	by 	eliminating,	redesigning	and	 down-gauging our packaging.  we also redesigned our wheeled-modular merchandising  unit to reduce materials by replacing it with a non-wheeled  model	starting	production	in	 .	 this	design	 will	 reduce	the	usage	of	plastic,	medium	density 	fiberboard,	 steel	and	corrugate.	 the	new 	unit	uses	 %	less	material	 by	weight,	equating	to	a	reduction	of	nearly 	 , 	 pounds annually.	 beyond	consumer 	packaging,	 we’re	finding	 ways	to	 further reduce our secondary, transport and retail display  packaging by 	investing	in	design	solutions	that	improve	 distribution	efficiency 	and	thus	eliminate	extra	trucks	on	 the	road.	 these	packaging	reduction	efforts	are	helping	 hershey mitigate the impact of packaging and packaging  waste	on	our 	overall	scope	 	ghg	emissions.	 what’s next • continue	to	find	 ways	to	eliminate	non-value	 added materials • drive circularity via design choices • strive for transparency and education with  enhanced labeling → for a summary of our packaging data, see page  . we are committed to  driving a sustainable  future through  responsible packaging  choices that protect  our products,  prioritize our planet  and deliver hershey  goodness to our  consumers.” sandra hand, director of packaging,  the hershey company  	recyclable materials: materials that can be collected, separated or otherwise recovered from the waste stream  through established recycling programs for reuse or use in manufacturing or assembling another item. water intensity (l/kg of product produced) water stress scoreoperational water footprint by factory  memphis, tn malaysia robinson, il granby, canada high water intensity high water stress and intensity high water stress low water stress and intensity hazleton, pa west hershey, pa pretzels	inc	–	 lawrence, ks lancaster, pa hershey, pa  st. hyacinthe, canadadots	–	lenexa,	ks dots	–	velva,	nd dots	–	edgerton,	ks pretzels	inc	–	 bluffton,	in stuarts draft, vahershey does not currently have  any factories in the high water  stress	and	intensity 	quadrant.  dots	–	goodyear,	 az pretzels	inc	–	plymouth,	in são roque, brazil el salto, mexico monterrey, mexico mandideep, indiawe manage water use  in our global owned and  leased facilities based  on our understanding of  regional water scarcity.   in	 ,	hershey 	had	a	  %	overall	improvement	 in water intensity.   	water stewardship, united nations global compact.   the methodology for our operational water footprint by factory analysis is  based on the aqueduct water risk atlas and hershey’s internal benchmarking  on	 	 water	intensity.	factories	in	the	high	 water	intensity 	quadrant	are	 above hershey’s median water intensity and are located in very low to low- medium baseline water stress areas. factories in the high water stress and  intensity quadrant are above hershey’s median water intensity and are located  in medium-high to extremely high baseline water stress areas. factories in  the high water stress quadrant are below hershey’s median water intensity  and are located in medium-high to extremely high baseline water stress  areas. factories in the low water stress and intensity quadrant are below  hershey’s median water intensity and are located in very low to low-medium  baseline	 water	stress	areas.	 this	assessment	 was	first	completed	for 	hershey’s	 operational	 water	footprint	in	 .	 the	median	is	based	on	the	 	hershey 	 water intensity baseline.material esg issue: water use salient human rights issue: access to water and sanitation   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the better we understand our water use, the better we are  able to manage those areas where our impact is the most  significant.	our 	stewardship	of	 water	starts	at	home,	as	 we	 gain	insights	into	our 	manufacturing	and	office	footprint	 and use this data to identify the most impactful actions.  taking action on water  across our company, we took broad action on water during   .	we: • established an energy and water management steering  committee and a manufacturing water working group  to	implement	energy 	and	water	efficiency 	management	 plans in our facilities. see reducing ghg emissions in  our	operations	on	page	 . • increased	action	in	 water	efficiency,	especially 	at	our	 international facilities which improved water intensity by   %	compared	to	 . • invested	nearly 	$ . 	million	in	high-efficiency 	equipment	 and adjusted operating procedures to reduce well water  usage at our company headquarters. • investigated our operational footprint and its correlation  with water-stressed areas.water: a precious resource why it matters water insecurity is one of the greatest risks  to global prosperity. an estimated   billion  people currently live in water-stressed  areas. with water demand expected to  outstrip	supply 	by	 %	by	 ,	the	 number of people facing water scarcity will  increase.  access to water and sanitation is  a fundamental human right and strive to  manage our use of this limited resource to  protect supplies of clean water. through  our manufacturing facilities and supply  chain, hershey is dependent on water for  every	product	 we	make. this	challenge	 requires that hershey fully understands and  responsibly manages our use of and impacts  on this critical resource.  raising water awareness • celebrated world water day, with green teams  and facilities leading educational events and  volunteer service projects • hosted an expert water supplier to educate  employees in our monterrey, mexico, facility on the  importance of ground water • engaged youth, in conjunction with the municipality  of el salto, mexico and regional water authorities, in  interactive activities to raise community awareness  about local water challenges and how everyone can  be part of the solutioncreativity in a water crisis in	march	 ,	the	government	in	monterrey,	mexico,	 declared a water crisis due to drought. the resourceful  team in our monterrey facility immediately began work  to identify water reduction opportunities. the plant team  identified	their 	cooling	towers	as	a	major 	source	of	 water	 consumption and found opportunities to recycle the clean  non-contact cooling water back into the cooling towers  that was previously not reused, thus greatly reducing the  plant’s	water	needs.	the	monterrey 	water	crisis	officially 	 ended	in	september 	 .	our 	learnings	through	this	crisis	 highlighted the need for continued water conservation  and management. we are incorporating more sustainable  practices into our everyday plant water consumption.case study   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report water: a precious resource   continued material esg issue: - water use -  business operations and supply chain  resilience   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the water used to create our  products is one of our greatest  opportunities to reduce our  environmental impact.we look across our supply chain at water intensity and  quality, using a data-driven approach to develop our  implementation strategies. among other leading water  frameworks	and	tools,	 we	benefit	from	our 	membership	 in the science based targets network’s (sbtn)  corporate engagement program, which we use as a  tool to understand our opportunities for water reduction  and impact.	 we address water protection through an integrated  environmental approach that is aligned with our business  strategy and maximizes positive impact. we are investing  in	solutions	that	have	multiple	benefits	for 	both	hershey 	 and our stakeholders: they are designed to maintain  our business resiliency while supporting livelihoods and  ecosystems and taking climate action. when we refreshed  our priority ingredients risk assessment, we included water  use to ensure that we consider current risks as our business  evolves. we assessed our water footprint, broken down  into blue water and green water. green water refers to the  rainwater and soil moisture consumed by plants and crops.  blue water refers to the volume of surface water or ground  water consumed by an activity. while hershey calculates  its green water footprint to better understand its impact on  the environment, only the blue water footprint can be easily  controlled and we do our best to reduce the blue water  footprint used in our supply chain. → learn more in risk assessment refresh on page  . identifying water risks we’re fundamentally connecting our climate, nature and  water strategies to optimize resources for a more resilient  supply	chain.	we	completed	the	first	steps	in	our 	water	risk	 assessment	by 	mapping	the	 water	risk	across	our 	top	 	 ingredients.	 this	process	started	in	 ,	 when	we	launched	 a preliminary assessment following the sbtn methodology.  this enabled us to better understand our water footprint  and begin to gather insights on contextual water challenges  across our operations and the value chain. through continued participation in sbtn’s self-guided  pilot,	we’ve	refined	our 	initial	assessments	for 	the	 integration of water quality and quantity awareness across  our	supply	chain.	we	began	to	identify 	and	refine	potential	 priority areas for future ambition to create more sustainable  water systems and help future-proof growth against climate  change. we also took preliminary steps to research some of  the social impacts of water issues, including exploring how  our water footprint could be linked to impacts associated  with access to clean water and sanitation and where  vulnerabilities might exist. we based these decisions on a  comprehensive assessment of water quality in our major  ingredient sourcing regions. we used leading global water  screening tools: aqueduct from the world resources  institute and water risk filter  by the world wildlife fund.  we’re elevating the importance of water in ingredient  sourcing and manufacturing by taking steps to quantify  the impacts and dependencies at our facilities and in our  value chain. with a better understanding of our reliance  and impact on water resources, we can develop a clearer  path for minimizing our water footprint. our actions to  understand and address our water use and risk include: • conducted projects to protect and enhance water  resources in collaboration with sustainable dairy pa. see  dairy, page	 .  • identified	the	 water	risks	and	opportunities	in	our 	priority	 ingredients, including enhanced understanding of  the climate	and	nature/water 	connection.	learn	more	in	 the	water-climate	connection	on	page	 .water stewardship  in our supply chain why it matters climate	change	affects	our 	business	by 	 increasing the frequency of extreme  weather and intensifying water stress.  reduced or erratic rainfall diminishes crop  yields, potentially disrupting our business  continuity 	and	increasing	costs. in	 ,	 approximately  % of	our 	food	ingredients	 were sourced from regions with high or  extremely high baseline water stress.  we	are	 seeking opportunities with our suppliers and  partners to protect supplies of clean water.  % of the company’s water use occurs in    of the   countries from which we  source our products ~ %   of hershey’s global water footprint takes  place in agriculture and packaging    , 	the	methodology 	for	this	calculation	is	based	on	mass	of	 ingredients sourced and the aqueduct water risk atlas and  wwf	water	risk	filter.	this	assessment	 was	first	completed	for 	 hershey’s	food	ingredients	in	 .	   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report water stewardship in our supply chain   continued we leverage the framework for  developing science-based targets   for	nature	as	defined	in	sbtn	to	 manage our blue water (which  is controllable). the blue water  footprint of ingredients is   calculated using water footprint  network statistics. increases in our blue water   footprint are due to higher volumes  of	ingredients	sourced	in	 	  and the addition of dots and pretzels  (wheat). cocoa's blue water footprint  decreased due to less sourcing in  brazil. brazil and nigeria are the only  countries in our portfolio with a blue  water footprint according to the  water footprint network statistics. sugar    , ,  peanuts   , , dairy   , , hershey’s operations   , ,  almonds    , , corn   , , wheat   ,  ,  green water  footprint   water used from  rainwater blue water footprint  water sourced from groundwater   or surface water resources   m cubic meters (total volume)our   blue water withdrawal footprint (cubic meters) soy / cocoa / pecans   ,  /  ,  /  ,  material esg issue: biodiversity   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the health of our business, local  communities we operate in and  the world’s economic systems  all depend on protecting the  health of nature. hershey recognizes that biodiversity plays a critical role  in business success and planetary health. biodiversity  loss presents a major systemic risk to both society and to  hershey. as an agriculturally-based food manufacturer,  our business success depends on natural systems and our  operations impact them. the food sector is also the area  that needs the most improvement in protecting nature .  during our double materiality assessment, biodiversity was  included as an esg material issue, and we are continuing to  educate ourselves by conducting a biodiversity assessment  in	 .	given	the	magnitude	of	this	challenge,	 we	are	 participating in collective solutions and investments with  expert partners to ensure that together, we contribute to  meaningful actions that protect and restore nature. our actions biodiversity is quickly becoming more deeply embedded  within our environmental priorities and is already referenced  in multiple policies, including our environmental policy   and no deforestation policy . hershey’s key requirements  for cocoa include approved crop protection products to  minimize impact on biodiversity — which applies to all cocoa  we source. through ongoing interactions with farmers and  other suppliers, we invest in and work toward protecting  the ecologically important ecosystems where palm oil is  produced, as stated in our responsible palm oil sourcing  policy .  in addition, we manage biodiversity through the standards  and	certifications	 we	use	for 	our	ingredients	and	materials,	 including dairy and sugar. along with our dairy partnership  with the alliance for the chesapeake bay, our two  new regenerative agriculture programs for sugar beet  production	also	have	biodiversity 	benefits.	 → learn more in improving soil health for sugar beets on page  . hershey is working to better understand, mitigate and  take action to protect biodiversity. an initial assessment  showed that hershey-owned manufacturing facilities  and distribution centers are not currently located in  or adjacent to areas of high biodiversity value. we  also	know 	that	within	 	kilometers	of	our 	facilities	in	 brazil, malaysia and mexico, the number of species  and percentage of landscape under protection is much  higher. for a summary of our biodiversity and iucn  red	list	species	data,	see	pages  	and	 .	 to build on this preliminary assessment, we are  conducting	a	biodiversity 	assessment	in	 	to	learn	 and educate ourselves on how to best proceed in  this rapidly evolving area for business. we continue  to participate in the sbtn corporate engagement  program for nature and the gri biodiversity standard.  in addition, we are actively monitoring pending nature  disclosure standards including, but not limited to, the  taskforce on nature-related financial disclosures  (tnfd) and the european union’s sustainability  reporting standards for biodiversity and ecosystems.  we will continue to learn, adapt and collaborate to  enable an agile response to this serious challenge.  what’s next • conduct a biodiversity footprint assessment to  gather insights on impacts, dependencies and  opportunities across our operations and the value  chain and better determine where we can make  the most	difference • expand	our 	reforestation	efforts	globally 	in	areas	 where we source ingredientsthe power — and importance —  of biodiversity   why it matters loss of biodiversity, the vast variety of all  living things on earth, ranks alongside  climate change and extreme weather as one  of the top three most severe risks facing  the world during the next decade.  without	 biodiversity, the healthy ecosystems that  we rely on for the food we eat and the air we  breathe are at risk. a decline in biodiversity  decreases the health and resiliency of the  natural systems that sustain the entire  supply chain of agricultural ingredients  that are essential for every product that  hershey makes. in	accordance	 with	our	 	gri	 content index, and to further support  our understanding of biodiversity-related  impacts, supplemental data tables are found  on pages  - .  	the	global	risks	report	 , world economic forum.   biodiversity: next up on the corporate sustainability docket, novisto.   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report harnessing the power of trees the foundation’s local partners continue to monitor and  maintain the trees to ensure their survival during the trees’  most vulnerable stage of growth. as we approach the  milestone of one million trees planted together, hershey  plans to work with the arbor day foundation to extend  the partnership internationally to tropical forest projects  in  . in	 ,	hershey 	marked	the	 th	 year	supporting	 the chesapeake bay foundation’s (cbf) educational  programs, which teach thousands of students about the  health of the chesapeake bay. in addition to providing  funding, we hosted cbf students in hershey for an  outreach	event	in	 .	 we	also	support	cbf’s	keystone   	million	 trees	partnership and its pennsylvania rivers  & streams environmental education program. through  these partnerships, our funding helped plant nearly   , 	trees	and	engage	over 	 	youth	participants	in	  	alone.	 we’re	proud	that	 we	were	able	to	contribute	 to	the keystone	 	million	 trees	partnership	planting	 its  	millionth	tree	in	october 	 	in	shippensburg,	 pennsylvania,	alongside	staff	from	the	 arbor	day	 foundation. the power — and importance — of biodiversity   continued case study research shows that planting trees and restoring  forest habitat provides a multitude of environmental  and	economic	benefits	to	our 	communities,	to	future	 generations and to our business. healthy forests have  profound impacts on soil health, biodiversity, water  use	and carbon	reduction.	each	of	these	topics	is	a	 material	esg issue	for 	hershey.	 we	engage	in	two major 	 tree-planting partnerships	as	part	of	our 	investment	in	 reforestation efforts. since	 ,	hershey 	has	partnered	 with	the	 arbor day  foundation to restore forest habitat across the u.s. as a  founding member of the evergreen alliance, an invite- only group of their most innovative and engaged corporate  partners,	hershey 	has	had	a	significant	impact	on	 america’s	 forests	and	on	the	foundation’s	ability 	to	fulfill	its	mission	 to inspire people to plant, nurture and celebrate trees.  through	the	end	of	 ,	 we	have	partnered	to	plant	nearly 	  , 	trees	and	restore	more	than	 , 	acres	of	land	 in	forests	of	greatest	need	across	 	states	through	large- scale	reforestation	projects.	in	 	alone,	 we	planted	over 	  , 	trees	and	restored	nearly 	 	acres	of	forests’	 habitat.  following the completion of each planting project,  there is not a person alive  who should not plant a tree  — not for the shade that  you’ll enjoy, but for those  who are coming after.” milton hershey  	prior arbor day foundation cumulative tree data was misreported from the arbor day foundation  to hershey. it has been restated on this page and in the data table on page  . repurposing waste in  manufacturing  by applying the hershey lean concept, an enterprise  initiative focused on improving operations across all  manufacturing	locations,	specifically 	to	operation	 waste,	our 	malaysia	facility 	green	team	identified	 and implemented three zero-cost projects. together,  these	changes	are	eliminating	 , 	pounds	of	 waste,	reducing	material	sent	to	landfill	and lowering	 costs. in one project, team members found a way  to convert almond waste that had been treated as  landfill	waste	to	be	beneficially 	used	in	agriculture.	 this not only reduces waste, but also eliminates  transportation costs and carbon emissions. helping people and the planet:  community engagement  a used cooking oil collection program at our brazil  plant	has	a	double	pay-off	 with	both	social	and	 environmental	benefits.	 the	instituto	de	educação	 socioambiental school transforms all oil donated  by our employees into soap at its ecological soap  factory, which provides employment for several  families. all proceeds are used to help children  through the local center of guidance and social  education.material esg issue: packaging and end-of-life   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report innovating waste solutions   by viewing waste as a resource that has  value, we’re finding new ways to reduce,  reuse and recycle our waste. in  ,  we achieved a company-wide waste  recycling rate of  %. at hershey, we strive to practice good environmental  stewardship. natural resources are limited, and poor  waste	management	can	aggravate	this	dilemma. failure	 to capture the value of end-of-life-cycle materials results  in consuming raw materials, expending energy and  generating pollution to create new products. furthermore,  irresponsible disposal can contribute to climate change  and	air	pollution,	and	directly 	affects	many 	ecosystems	 and	species.	 at	hershey,	 we	strive	to	take	a	different	 view	 of the by-products from our operations — not as waste  but as potentially valuable resources to be directed away  from	landfills	and	put	to	productive	use.	employees	seek 	 out	new and	innovative ways	to	reduce,	reuse	and	recycle	 materials, often	finding	local	partners	for 	whom	these	 resource streams	are	beneficial,	thus	contributing	to	a	 circular economy. when	we	encounter 	a	new	waste	stream,	hershey 	identifies	 the	most	beneficial	use	by 	evaluating	the	item	according	to	 a waste hierarchy process. starting with prevention, the best  way	to	manage	 waste	is	to	produce	less	in	the	first	place.	 at the enterprise and site levels, teams are reducing waste  by conducting audits, implementing better processes and  increasing employee awareness of workplace waste. if a waste stream cannot be prevented, we explore  opportunities for reuse and recycling. for example, the  majority of unusable product from our manufacturing  facilities in pennsylvania and beyond are sent to local  processing facilities as an organic input used in the  agricultural sector. if the material cannot be recycled,  we look for ways to extract value, such as through waste- to-energy solutions. our plant in monterrey, mexico,  diverts some non-recyclable waste to a nearby cement  manufacturing facility, which uses it as a substitute for fossil  fuels. this practice reduces co  emissions for the cement  manufacturer and contributes to a circular economy. we  also seek to reduce waste through responsible procurement  practices, such as purchasing items with recycled content  and reduced packaging. waste management strategies are implemented at  each location by our environmental health and safety  (ehs) personnel who ensure adherence to our waste  management policy. we harness the energy and  enthusiasm	of	our 	 	green	 teams	worldwide	to	help	drive	 waste	reduction	at	our 	manufacturing	and	office	sites. what’s next • gather additional detailed insights and analytics about  our waste streams to identify areas of opportunity in the  spirit of continuous improvement → for a summary of our waste management data, see page  .    the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report environmental  partnerships hershey partners with global and  local environmental organizations  to drive impact by reducing our  environmental impact. we consider these partnerships to be of key importance.  they bring essential insights and help us to reduce our  environmental impact, make improvements in the quality  of	land	and	 water	around	our 	operations,	and	benefit	local	 communities. furthermore, collaborations with others in  sustainability 	partnerships	is	the	focus	of	goal	 	of	the	 united nations sustainable development goals. at right,  we highlight several of our most influential partnerships,  spanning the environmental spectrum including  atmospheric emissions, impacts on water, land and  biodiversity.chesapeake bay foundation (cbf) -  with	over 	 	years	of	partnership,	hershey 	 is	a	founder 	of	the	keystone	 	million	 trees	 campaign in addition to youth environmental  education	efforts.	 horn farm center - a hub for agricultural  education, the horn farm center fosters  learning through ecological stewardship,  experiential education and community  partnership. lebanon county conservation district  (lccd ) - part of the county government,  lccd addresses local, natural resource  concerns at a county level by providing  technical assistance and education. urban roots farm - a community-shared  agricultural resource and community- supported agriculture farm that grows organic  food for our community. hershey community garden - founded  by the hershey company, penn state health  milton s. hershey medical center, and  hershey entertainment & resorts company,  the garden provides fresh produce for local  food banks and health and environmental  education programs for community members.alliance for the chesapeake bay -  hershey works with the alliance for  the chesapeake bay to make on-farm  improvements to reduce emissions and  improve waterways in the pennsylvania  region. arbor day foundation - hershey engages  the arbor day foundation to identify and  execute large-scale tree planting projects to  reduce emissions and promote biodiversity.  hershey is a founding member of the  evergreen alliance, an invite-only group  of the foundation’s most innovative and  engaged corporate partners. pur - a global leader in nature-based  solutions, pur works with farmers to develop  impactful, community-run regenerative  and sustainable agriculture models, also  enhancing livelihoods and conservation  activities. soil and water outcomes fund -  this	fund	provides	financial	incentives	 directly to farmers who transition to on- farm conservation practices that yield  positive environmental outcomes such as  carbon sequestration and water quality  improvements.science based targets network -  sbtn helps hershey in setting science- based targets to reduce corporate impact  on biodiversity, land, freshwater and the  ocean. world resources institute - as a  global environmental and development  organization, hershey is part of their  corporate consultative group where we  have access to consultation, networking,  and interactive workshops. ceres  - as a member of the ceres  company network, ceres provides  hershey access to peer connections,  emerging sustainability priorities and  consulting expertise. , + people, including over  ,  youth,  participated in environmental education  opportunities to raise environmental  awareness, engage in problem  solving, and take action to improve the  environment through these partnerships.global networks  and nonprofitscommunity partnersproject  implementation  partners our green team mission  educate: spread awareness of hershey’s  sustainability initiatives and challenges and share  best practices.	 engage: foster feelings of inclusion and ownership  in creating hershey’s sustainability future and build  grassroots support and momentum. activate: harness employee passion and energy to  identify and implement improvements to tangibly  impact hershey’s sustainability. the green team gives me  the opportunity to be part of  big change in sustainability  with the people at hershey  monterrey and with the  community. i am sure that  we as a network can  continue to give goodness  back into this world.”  reyna cristina martinez, hershey  monterrey green team member   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report employees acting for change the passionate people on hershey’s  green teams are activating our  workforce to help better manage our  resources and protect the planet. achieving hershey’s environmental goals and  commitments requires action from employees across our  enterprise. our green teams are the front lines of this  action.	making	a	difference	has	always	been	a	core	 value	 at hershey. these employees are bringing that value to life  through their personal involvement in the workplace as  volunteers, and by making business decisions and taking  actions that advance sustainability and social impact. environmental stewardship our green teams represent a group of passionate  employees from all parts of the organization and locations  around the world. they come together out of a shared  interest in reducing negative environmental impacts  at hershey and in the communities where we operate.  hershey	launched	our 	first	green	 team	on	earth	day 	  .	at	the	end	of	 ,	there	 were	 	active	green	 team	 chapters	involving	more	than	 	people	around	the	 world.	 green teams are a grassroots initiative that promotes  a culture of sustainability through educating, engaging  and activating employees, all contributing positively  to our esg goals at every level of the business. green  teams	are a	catalyst	for 	transforming	hershey 	into	a	more	 sustainable organization	from	the	inside	out. growing greener to capture and replicate the innovation and  accomplishments of green teams, we launched a best  practice sharing tool for our global facilities. this repository  promotes idea sharing and provides recognition for  successful solutions implemented by hershey colleagues.  for example, the são roque green team replaced their  lpg	forklifts with	electric	forklifts.	by 	eliminating	the	use	 of propane gas, the são roque plant reduced its co  emissions	by 	 	tons	in	 	months.	in	addition	to	cleaner 	air,	 the employees appreciate a quieter workplace due to the  elimination of noise pollution from the previous forklifts.  success stories such as this help motivate and inspire other  plants to engage in similar changes.  celebrating excellence in	 	we	introduced	a	green	 teams	awards	program	to	 celebrate and commend best practices and projects that  best demonstrate our green teams pillars of educate,  engage, and activate. through this healthy competition,  we showcase projects from the past year and share actions  other	green	teams	can	replicate.	one	finalist	project	 included a world water day celebration in which the  malaysia green team members began a competition  to reduce household water bills. in são roque, facility  members and students from community schools engaged  in an educational workshop to discuss the importance  of water management and protection in context of the  regional	 water	basin.	additional	finalist	projects	engaged	 hundreds of students in environmental workshops, such as  the são roque facility’s good to give back month event,  during	which	 	students	planted	almost	 	trees. cleaning up plastic recycling plastic covers three of our facilities in brazil help raise funds for local  schools by collecting and recycling bottle caps through the  tampinha legal project, one of the largest latin american  socio-environmental education programs in the plastic  industry.	caps	and	covers	of	all	kinds	are	collected	in	 	 repurposed food drums, painted and adapted by volunteers  to promote sorting by color and proper collection in the  schools involved.the perils of single use plastic our malaysia plant green team educated students at the  taman daya school about the importance of sustainability  and avoiding single-use plastics. team members presented  students with a reusable hershey stainless steel drinking  bottle as a substitute for plastic bottles and explained why  it’s better for their health and the environment.  what’s next • lead programming in energy, waste and water to raise  employee awareness and engagement • advance waste reduction at hershey global headquarters • with	the	help	of	our 	partners,	reach	a	total	of	 	million	 total trees planted   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report our progress environment target y earprogress (as of dec.  ,   ) goal status notes  % absolute	reduction	in	scope	 	and	 	ghg	emissions	against	a	 	baseline    % on track    % absolute	reduction	in	scope	 	ghg	emissions	against	a	 	baseline    % in progress    %  of plastic packaging to be recyclable, reusable or compostable    % on track     million pounds  of packaging to be eliminated    .  million  poundson track    	hershey's	ghg	emissions	reduction	goal	for 	 	is	based	on	scope	 	and	scope	 	(market-based).	our 	 	scope	 	and	scope	 	data	received	limited	assurance	by 	ey.   our	 	scope	 	data	is	 verified	by 	quantis.		in	 ,	 we	will	be	undertaking	a	rebaselining	for 	our	scope	 	emissions.  	the progress for this commitment currently represents hershey north american produced products only (e.g., u.s., canada, monterrey (mexico), and all export items from these countries) that are recyclable.  	in	 ,	we	expanded	our 	commitment	to	eliminate	an	additional	 	million	pounds	of	packaging	by 	 .	results	represent	cumulative	packaging	 waste	eliminated	( - ).goals kpis   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report ghg emissions unit       notes direct	(scope	 )	emissions mtco e  ,   ,   ,    change	in	scope	 	emissions	(against	a	 	baseline) %	 - . % - . % - . % — indirect (scope  ): market-based emissions mtco e  ,   ,   ,    change	in	scope	 :	market-based	emissions	(against	a	 	baseline) % - . % - . % - . % — value	chain	(scope	 )	emissions mtco e  , ,   , ,   , ,    change	in	scope	 	emissions	(against	a	 	baseline) % - . % - . % - . % — total ghg footprint mtco e  , ,   , ,   , ,    indirect (scope  ): location-based emissions mtco e  ,   ,   ,    biogenic carbon dioxide emissions mtco e  ,   ,   ,     	hershey’s	 	scope	 	data	received	limited	assurance	by 	ey	and	the	corresponding	limited	assurance	statement	is	found	on	pages	 - .   hershey’s	 	scope	 	data	received	limited	assurance	by 	ey	and	the	corresponding	limited	assurance	statement	is	found	on	pages	 - .  	hershey's	 	scope	 	data	has	been	independently 	verified	by 	quantis	and	the	corresponding	data	 verification	letter 	is	found	on	pages	 - .  	our	 	total	ghg	footprint	is	considered	accurate	given	scope	 	and	scope	 	(market-based)	data	has	received	limited	assurance	by 	ey	(see	pages	 - )	and	our 	scope	 	data	has	been	 verified	by 	quantis	(see	pages	 - ).  	this	metric	includes	carbon	emission	from	biofuel,	such	as	biomass	and	biogas,	for 	energy	production.		hershey 	transitioned	from	coal	to	rice	husks	as	biofuel	 within	our 	india	plant	during	 . scope hershey's	 	ghg	emissions	data	includes	all	brands	in	hershey’s	portfolio,	including	 amplify,	one	brands,	lily's,	dot's	and	pretzels.		 hershey’s	 	and	 	ghg	emissions	data	excludes	one	brands,	lily's,	dot's	and	pretzels. methodology hershey’s	total	ghg	footprint	is	calculated	based	on	scope	 ,	scope	 	(market-based)	and	scope	 	emissions. scope	 	includes	natural	gas,	coal,	oil	#	 ,	oil	# ,	gasoline,	jet	fuel,	propane,	refrigerants,	and	biogenic	emissions	for 	ch  and n o.  gases included in the reporting boundary are co , ch , n o, hfcs, and pfcs. the majority of the reported co e  emissions are from co  with the remainder being composed of ch , n o, hfcs, and pfcs, noting that these and other greenhouse gases are not material to hershey's emissions.  scope   indirect emissions includes the following gases: co , ch , and n o in the reporting boundary. the majority of the reported co e emissions are from co  with the remainder being composed of ch 	and n o, noting that hfcs, pfcs, sf   and nf  are not material to hershey's emissions. totals	may 	not	equal	 %,	due	to	rounding. all	calculations	include	relevant	ghg	emissions	as	specified	by 	the	greenhouse	gas	reporting	protocol	and	follows	the	operational	control	methodology.	 emission factor sources include:  • scope	 :	ecoinvent	and	defra.		operational	control.		 • scope  : epa emissions & generation resource integrated database (egrid), green-e® energy residual mix emissions rate and the emission rates of our electricity providers.  the green-e residual mix emission factor emission factors  applied	to	electricity 	consumption	in	the	u.s.	is	an	adjusted	grid-average	emission	factor 	that	accounts	for 	all	unique	green-e	energy 	certified	sales.	 a	complete	adjusted	emission	factor 	(i.e.,	residual	mix 	that	accounts	for 	all	voluntary 	 renewable energy claimed) is not available for the u.s. at this time. operational control.  • scope	 :	ecoinvent,	 world	food	lca 	database	(wfldb	 version	 . ),	quantis	dryad	tool	and	the	emission	rates	of	some	of	our 	suppliers.		operational	control.	ghg	protocol	standard	used. kpis   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report ghg emissions - scope   unit       notes scope	 :	category 	 	–	purchased	goods	and	services mtco e  , ,   , ,   , ,  — scope	 :	category 	 	–	capital	goods mtco e not applicable not applicable not applicable — scope	 :	category 	 	–	fuel	and	energy-related	 activities mtco e  ,   ,   ,    scope	 :	category 	 	–	upstream	 transportation	and	distribution mtco e  ,   ,   ,  — scope	 :	category 	 	–	waste	generated	in	operations mtco e  ,   ,   ,    scope	 :	category 	 	–	business	 travel mtco e  ,   ,   ,    scope	 :	category 	 	–	employee	commuting mtco e  ,   ,   ,  — scope	 :	category 	 	–	upstream	leased	 assets mtco e not applicable  ,   ,    scope	 :	category 	 	–	downstream	 transportation	and	distribution mtco e  ,   ,   ,    scope	 :	category 	 	–	processing	of	sold	products mtco e not applicable not applicable not applicable — scope	 :	category 	 	–	use	of	sold	products mtco e not applicable not applicable not applicable — scope	 :	category 	 	–	end-of-life	 treatment	of	sold	products mtco e  ,   ,   ,    scope	 :	category 	 	–	downstream	leased	 assets mtco e not applicable not applicable not applicable — scope	 :	category 	 	–	franchises mtco e not applicable not applicable not applicable — scope	 :	category 	 	–	investments mtco e not applicable not applicable not applicable —  	data	for	 	includes	emissions	related	to	electricity 	production	and	includes	one	brands,	lily's,	dot's	and	pretzels.   data	for	 	includes	one	brands,	lily's,	dot's	and	pretzels.  	business	travel	increased	in	 	and	is	more	closely 	aligned	to	pre-pandemic	levels.		data	for 	 	includes	one	brands,	lily's,	dot's	and	pretzels.  	consistent	 with	our	year-over-year 	improvement,	 we	identified	that	emissions	previously 	associated	 with	our	retail	sales	fleet	 were	better 	aligned	to	definitions	in	scope	 	and	therefore	scope	 :	category 	 	is	no	longer 	applicable.  	our	scope	 :	category 	 	value	decreased	in	 	due	to	continued	improvements	in	fuel	efficiency.   data	for	 	includes	one	brands,	lily's,	dot's	and	pretzels. assurance  hershey's	 	scope	 	data	has	been	independently 	verified	by 	quantis	and	the	corresponding	data	 verification	letter 	is	found	on	pages	 - . scope  hershey's	 	ghg	emissions	data	includes	all	brands	in	hershey’s	portfolio,	including	 amplify,	one	brands,	lily's,	dot's	and	pretzels.		 hershey’s	 	and	 	ghg	emissions	data	excludes	one	brands,	lily's,	dot's	and	pretzels.		 methodology  totals	may 	not	equal	 %,	due	to	rounding. all	calculations	include	relevant	ghg	emissions	as	specified	by 	the	greenhouse	gas	reporting	protocol.	 emission factor sources include:  • scope	 :	ecoinvent,	 world	food	lca 	database	(wfldb	 version	 . ),	quantis	dryad	tool	and	the	emission	rates	of	some	of	our 	suppliers.		operational	control.	ghg	protocol	standard	used.   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report emissions intensity unit       direct	(scope	 ) mtco e per metric ton of product produced  .   .   .  indirect (scope  ): market-based mtco e per metric ton of product produced  .   .   .  scope	 	and	scope	 :	market-based mtco e per metric ton of product produced  .   .   .  value	chain	(scope	 ) mtco e per metric ton of product produced  .   .   .  scope hershey's	 	ghg	emissions	data	includes	all	brands	in	hershey’s	portfolio,	including	 amplify,	one	brands,	lily's,	dot's	and	pretzels.		 hershey’s	 	and	 	ghg	emissions	data	excludes	one	brands,	lily's,	dot's	and	pretzels.			 energy consumption unit       notes biogas gigajoules (gj)  ,   ,   ,    biomass gigajoules (gj)  ,  not applicable not applicable   coal gigajoules (gj)  ,   ,   ,    distillate fuel oil no.   gigajoules (gj)  ,   ,   ,  — electricity consumed gigajoules (gj)  , ,   , ,   , ,  — fuel oil no.   gigajoules (gj)         jet fuel gigajoules (gj)  ,   ,   ,    gasoline gigajoules (gj)  ,   ,   ,    natural gas gigajoules (gj)  , ,   , ,   , ,  — propane gigajoules (gj)  ,      — total energy consumption gigajoules (gj)  , ,   , ,   , ,    energy intensity ratio gj per metric  ton of product  produced  .   .   .     	we	had	a	decrease	in	biogas	in	 	due	to	operational	downtime	of	the	biogas	system.   hershey	transitioned	from	coal	to	biomass	as	an	energy 	source	within	our 	india	plant	in	 .  	fuel	oil	no.	 	is	a	carbon-intensive	fuel,	hershey 	eliminated	from	use	in	   	travel	increased	in	 	and	is	more	closely 	aligned	to	pre-pandemic	levels.  	our	 	results	appropriately 	include	fuel	usage	from	retail	sales	 vehicles	 which	had	been	omitted	previously.   total	may 	not	add	up	 when	using	category 	values	listed	above	due	to	rounding.		our 	 	total	energy 	consumption	metric	received	limited	assurance	by 	ey	(see	pages	 - ).  	represents energy usage at hershey manufacturing plants related to fuel, electricity and heating. note:	the	 	and	 	scope	of	for 	our	energy	consumption	data	includes	all	hershey 	facilities	(e.g.,	offices,	factories	and	distribution	centers/warehouses)	 with	the	exception	of	one	brands,	lily’s,	dot’s	and	pretzels.		 these	locations	are	 included	in	the	 	energy 	consumption	data.kpis kpis   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report electricity mix unit       notes total electricity consumed that is grid electricity %  . %  . %  . %   electricity consumption that is renewable %	  . %  . %  . %   electricity 	consumption	that	qualifies	as	zero-emissions	energy %	  . %  . %  . %   electricity consumption from renewable and zero-emissions energy %  %  % not applicable — recs from solar projects # of recs  ,   ,  not applicable    	these	kpis	received	limited	assurance	by 	ey	(see	pages	 - ).		data	for 	 	includes	one	brands,	lily's,	dot's	and	pretzels   hershey	invested	in	three	solar 	farm	projects	 with	the	first	coming	online	in	 	and	the	second	in	 .		 the	third	is	scheduled	to	generate	power 	beginning	in	 .		  air quality unit       nox emissions metric tons  .   .   .  sox emissions metric tons  .   .   .  voc emissions metric tons  .   .   .  co emissions metric tons  .   .   .  particulate emissions metric tons  .   .   .  note:    	air	emissions	data	represents	hershey's	 	global	confectionery 	manufacturing	sites.   	and	 	data	only 	includes	confectionery 	manufacturing	sites	in	mexico	and	the	u.s.  this data does not include dot's, pretzels, lily's, or one brands.   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report packaging unit       notes eliminating hard-to-recycle pvc % qualified  alternatives  identified for   % of pvcqualified	 alternatives  identified	for 	more	 than	 %	of	pvcnot applicable   total packaging sourced globally metric tons  ,   ,   ,    packaging waste eliminated millions of pounds  .   .   .    product packaging by weight that is currently recyclable %  %  %  % — packaging made from recycled and/or renewable materials %  %  %  . % — packaging in north america that is post-consumer recycled material %  %  %  % —  	hershey’s	commitment	to	eliminate	pvc	by 	end	of	 	 was	announced	in	 .		 we	are	targeting	no	new 	orders	of	pvc	in	 	and	beyond.   this packaging weight includes candy, mint, and gum products. it excludes all other product packaging and any non-hershey purchased packaging materials  	we	eliminated	 . 	million	pounds	of	packaging	 waste	in	 .		 the	decline	in	packaging	 waste	compared	to	 	 was	due	to	a	large	packaging	project	in	 	that	eliminated	a	substantial	amount	of	corrugate	related	to	reese	products.	 cumulative	packaging	 waste	eliminated	( - )	is	 . 	million	pounds. packaging waste eliminated:  • hershey’s	initial	packaging	elimination	goal	 was	achieved	five	 years	ahead	of	schedule	in	 .	 we	have	since	expanded	our 	commitment	to	eliminate	an	additional	 	million	pounds	of	packaging	by 	 . • the	 	 value	does	not	include	packaging	reductions	from	 amplify,	 which	also	reduced	its	packaging	 weight	by 	an	additional	 . 	million	pounds	in	 . water impact unit       notes total water consumption millions of liters         total water consumed in region of extremely high baseline water stress %  . %  %  . %   total water consumed in region of high baseline water stress %	  . %  %  . %   total water discharged millions of liters  ,   ,   ,    total water use millions of liters  ,   ,   ,    groundwater %	of	total	 water	 use  %  %  % — purchased water %	of	total	 water	 use  %  %  % — total water withdrawn in region of extremely high baseline water stress %  . %  %  . %   total water withdrawn in region of high baseline water stress %  %  %  . %   water intensity liters per kilogram  of product  produced  .   .   .  —  	water	consumption	is	calculated	as	 water	use	less	 water	discharge.	 this	metric	has	been	independently 	verified	by 	quantis	(see	pages	 - ).   the	data	represents	hershey’s	global	manufacturing	facilities	and	owned	u.s.	distribution	centers	and	corporate	offices.	 while	water	intensity 	continues	to	improve,	there	 was	an	increased	production	in	 	that	resulted	in	an	increase	in	 water	consumption.	in	 ,	 only	our	plant	in	india	 was	considered	in	a	region	of	extreme	baseline	 water	stress.	in	 	and	 ,	our 	plants	in	india,	monterrey,	and	guadalajara	 were	considered	in	a	region	of	extreme	baseline	 water	stress.  	 	water	data	includes	dot's	and	pretzels	inc.	 this	metric	has	been	independently 	verified	by 	quantis	(see	pages	 - ).  	the	data	represents	hershey’s	global	manufacturing	facilities	and	owned	u.s.	distribution	centers	and	corporate	offices. note:	our 	 	water	data	excludes	one	brands,	lily’s,	dot’s	and	pretzels.kpis kpis   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report waste management unit       notes hazardous waste metric tons         non-hazardous waste generated metric tons  ,   ,   ,    waste to energy (incineration) metric tons  ,   ,   ,    waste	to	trash	(landfill) metric tons  ,   ,   ,    total waste reused and recycled metric tons  ,   ,   ,  — total waste: composted metric tons         total waste: recycled metric tons  ,   ,   ,  — total waste: stock feed metric tons  ,   ,   ,  — waste intensity metric tons of  waste generated  / metric tons of  product produced .   .   .  —  	the	definition	of	hazardous	 waste	varies	by 	country.		in	 ,	medical	 waste	in	malaysia	(e.g.,	covid	personal	protective	equipment	including	gloves	and	masks)	 was	re-classified	as	hazardous	 waste.   data	for	 	includes	one	brands,	lily's,	dot's	and	pretzels,	inc.  	our	reduction	in	compost	in	 	is	attributed	to	an	increase	in	the	amount	of	organic	material	being	diverted	to	stock 	feed. note:    	and	 	data	in	the	 waste	management	table	excludes	one	brands,	lily’s,	dot’s	and	pretzels.  waste	management	data	 within	this	table	has	been	independently 	verified	by 	quantis	(see	pages	 - ).	 kpis   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report biodiversity* unit     hershey, pa manufacturing,	corporate	offices,	distribution	centers%  . %  . % hazleton, pa manufacturing %  . %  . % lancaster, pa manufacturing %  . %  . % stuarts draft, va manufacturing %  . %  . % memphis, tn manufacturing %  . %  . % robinson, il manufacturing %  . %  . % monterrey, nuevo león, mexico manufacturing %  . %  . % guadalajara, jalisco, mexico manufacturing %  . %  . % mandideep, madhya pradesh, india manufacturing %  . %  . % johor, malaysia manufacturing %  . %  . % são roque, são paulo, brazil manufacturing %  . %  . % granby, quebec, canada manufacturing %  . %  . % st. hyacinthe, quebec, canada manufacturing %  . %  . % edwardsville, il distribution center %  . %  . % ogden, ut distribution center %  . %  . % edgerton, ks dot's pretzels %  . %  . % goodyear, az dot's pretzels %  . %  . % lenexa, ks dot's pretzels %  . %  . % velva, nd dot's pretzels %  . %  . % lawrence, ks pretzel's inc. %  . %  . % bluffton,	in pretzel's inc. %  . %  . % plymouth, in pretzel's inc. %  . %  . % *this	data	represents	operational	sites	owned,	leased,	managed	in,	or 	adjacent	to,	protected	areas	and	areas	of	high	biodiversity 	value	outside	protected	areas.		more	specifically,	the	informaiton	identifies	at	hershey-owned	 manufacturing	facilities	and	distribution	centers,	the	percentage	of	nearby 	landscape	considered	under 	protection	 within	 	kilometers	according	to	 the	world	database	on	protected	 areas	(wdpa).		 the	wdpa	is	the	most	 comprehensive	global	database	on	terrestrial	and	marine	protected	areas.	 this	data	is	up	to	date	as	of	march	 .		   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report iucn red list species*     locationcritically  endangered endangered vulnerablenear  threatenedleast  concernedcritically  endangered endangered vulnerablenear  threatenedleast  concerned arizona, usa                     illinois, usa                     indiana, usa                     jalisco, mexico          ,           ,  johor, malaysia          ,           ,  kansas, usa                     madhya prades, india                     north dakota, usa                     nuevo león, mexico                     pennsylvania, usa                     quebec, canada                     são paulo, brazil          ,           ,  tennessee, usa                     utah, usa                     virginia, usa                     *the	data	in	the	table	above	shows	the	iucn	red	list	species	and	national	conservation	list	species	 with	habitats	 within	 	kilometers	of	hershey-owned	manufacturing	facilities	and	distribution	centers,	by 	level	of	extinction	risk. hershey green teams unit       notes hershey green team chapters (globally) #       — hershey green team members # >  >  >  — trees planted and tree seedlings distributed #  ,   ,   ,    trees planted in partnership with the arbor day foundation # of trees  ,  > ,  not applicable    	the total trees planted and tree seedlings data represented in this metric includes the activities of hershey green teams and ongoing partnerships like the arbor day foundation and sustainable dairy pa. it does not include tree planting  related	to	cocoa.	 the	cocoa	tree	data	may 	be	found	on	page	 .   hershey's	previously 	reported	tree	total	has	been	restated	in	this	table	compared	to	our 	 	esg	report.		data	 was	previously 	incorrectly 	reported	by 	the	arbor	day	foundation	to	hershey.		over 	the	course	of	our 	partnership	( - ),	 we	have	planted	more	than	 , 	trees	 with	the	 arbor	day	foundation.	in	calendar 	year	 ,	we	specifically 	planted	 , 	trees.kpis our  people at hershey, we foster a culture of  togetherness and collaboration  where our people feel heard, valued  and supported to do their best work  each day. we strive to nurture workplaces where inclusiveness is  automatic, not an initiative, and all employees can be  their whole selves at work. we fuel their potential when  we invest in them and enable them to be the best  versions of themselves. together, we have built a deep sense of pride, passion  and belonging that transcends any role, business unit,  language or country.   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the hershey company   esg reportlead today, create tomorrow  changes in the external labor environment continue to  present hershey with the opportunity to evolve our current  workforce strategies. our employee value proposition  — to lead today, create tomorrow — encapsulates our  people-first	strategy 	to	maintain	and	strengthen	our 	highly- engaged and productive workforce. by listening carefully  and continuously to our employees, we gain valuable  insights that enable us to create a workplace that meets  employees’ needs and helps them thrive. by understanding  and adapting to external trends, we create opportunities to  embrace technology to rethink people development, best  utilize our employees’ time, drive productivity and retain  talented, productive employees.  our strategy there are four pillars to our lead today,  create tomorrow strategy: flexibility and time use we are supporting overall well-being by helping employees  maximize time both at home and at work. through the  best of both framework, employees enjoy flexibility in  when, where and how work gets done. over the past two  years, this framework has been instrumental in driving  engagement, inclusion and belonging, and innovation  across our teams.  → learn more in family friendly, flexible work options on page  .we invest in a dynamic workforce  and foster an environment where all  employees can thrive. together, we  are creating a brighter tomorrow  for hershey and each other.development for all we	foster 	a	fulfilling	professional	environment	to	promote	 individual	growth	for 	all.	hershey 	has	also	intensified	our 	 efforts	to	build	a	talent	pipeline	of	future	leaders.	in	 ,	 we launched a robust talent assessment process to feed  our director and critical role pipeline with commercially- oriented talent.  this program supplements established talent pipeline  efforts	geared	at	ensuring	that	 we	have	a	solid	and	diverse	 bench and pipeline for our most critical enterprise roles.  → learn more in investing in development to create tomorrow  on page  .  energizing experiences we celebrate the positive contributions of an inclusive and  diverse workforce. through our pathways to join, grow  and reach out , we are welcoming, including and helping  to advance people inside — and outside — of hershey. see  additional	details	about	the	pathways	project	on	page	 .  care systems and rewards we	offer 	recognition	and	rewards	that	enrich	financial,	 emotional and physical well-being of our people in  meaningful	 ways.	see	care	systems	&	flexibility 	on	page	 . our purpose to make more moments of goodness, inspires  our people. we come to work each day motivated to make  and sell the iconic brands that our consumers love. those  brands hold a unique place in people's hearts and minds,  differentiate	our 	business	and	drive	our 	future	growth.why it matters our culture has long been one that values  togetherness, excellence, integrity and  making	a	difference.	 we	strive	to	cultivate	a	 workplace that delivers exceptional business  performance in a way that energizes our  people.	risks	to	our 	efforts	are	similar 	to	the	 labor trends that many are experiencing -  economic uncertainty and inflation, attrition  and global events. great talent is in more  demand with ongoing labor shortages and a  focus	on	skills-first	hiring.   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the hershey company   esg reportwe	put	the	safety 	of	our	people	first.	from	our 	employees,	 to contractors and guests we work to protect and  promote every person's well-being. health and safety is  a fundamental human right and we strive to uphold the  highest standards ensuring mental and physical safety of all  employees. our approach is based on global best practices  and seeks to meet or exceed regulations wherever we  operate.	hershey’s environmental,	health	&	safety 	policy	 statement is	signed	by 	our	ceo,	michele	buck,	and	applies	 to all global hershey employees.  we use an environmental, health and safety (ehs)  management	system	introduced	in	 	and	modeled	 on	the	leading	iso	 	and	 	standards.	 this	 global ehs system instituted standardized practices that  make it easier to maximize employee safety, ensure legal  compliance regardless of location, and unite our people  under one way of thinking about ehs. it encompasses  updated global safety standards for both people and  the environment, as well as regular training for relevant  employees on applicable topics. in	 ,	 we	began	implementing	a	culture-based	 ergonomics program to make our employees more  comfortable and increase productivity. our goal is to  achieve a  % hazard reduction for job functions  with ergonomic risks by  . overall risk reduction at  hershey will be achieved through automation, employee  awareness, training, development of employee-based  ergonomics committees, risk assessments, incorporation of  ergonomics into project planning, and the implementation  of corrective and preventative action plans.our global ehs management system we completed the implementation of our new ehs  management	system	in	 .	 this	work	was	supported	 by a robust internal audit system that validated the  application of the standard, as well as site compliance  with local regulations. audit teams consisted of ehs  center of excellence members and ehs managers from  other hershey sites. our ehs lean pillar team oversees  the implementation of the new safety standards and  procedures. safety training proper training is vital to equipping employees for a safe  experience at work. we follow a comprehensive training  program to ensure that our employees are aware of  and comply with all company and regulatory training  requirements. all hershey site locations follow the same  training matrix to plan, implement and monitor completion  of appropriate environmental, health, and safety training  for applicable employees. our safety training program  encompasses   separate training requirements with set  frequencies of initial, annual, bi-annual, and every three  years, based on overall risk and regulatory requirements.  dependent	on	the	specific	program,	training	is	completed	 though computer-based modules, classroom, and/or  hands-on instruction. we evaluate delivery and completion  of training as part of the global ehs assessment program  implemented	in	 .	employee ergonomics  we are rolling out our ergonomics program through a six- step	maturity	ladder	process	and	expect	to	achieve	our  %	 hazard reduction goal when each site has completed  implementation.	steps	 	through	 	focused	on	the	 development of cross-functional ergonomic committees,  general	awareness	training	for 	all	employees,	identification	 and completion of at least three ergonomic improvements,  and in-depth training for committee members about  ergonomic risk assessments. this also involved evaluation  of individual tasks and the completion of risk assessments  at	each	manufacturing	location.	by 	the	end	of	 ,	 	of	 	 sites	completed	ergonomic	activities	through	step	 .	 based on current progression through the established  ergonomic steps, we reduced ergonomic risk by  approximately 	 %	against	our 	 	goal. risk assessment conducting risk assessments for individual job tasks is a  critical step in reducing ergonomic risk. we have completed  ergonomic	risk 	assessments	at	 	of	our 	 	manufacturing	 locations. these risk assessments allow each respective  location to prioritize ergonomic hazards into low, medium  and high categories. as a next step, we will develop plans to  address	the	identified	risks.	 what’s next • develop life saving rules, i.e., safety imperatives to be  followed by all employees • develop and implement human factors training to  provide	awareness	of	individual	factors	that	may 	affect	 performance  • increase	focus	on	process safety 	via	the	hershey 	process	 safety management program, which aids in managing  hazards and reducing the frequency and severity of  incidents  → for a summary of our safety data, see page  .   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report safety first   caring for people's  safety is one of our  deepest responsibilities  at hershey and critical  to our ongoing success.” ken soltesz, director, environment,  health and safety, the hershey companysalient human rights issue: health and safety the hershey company   esg reportemployee well-being is a  cornerstone of an engaged,  innovative and productive  workforce. when our employees  feel seen, respected and cared  for, they give their best.to remain competitive, hershey provides a compelling  workplace	that	offers	flexibility,	room	to	grow,	career 	 connections and unique experiences. as our business  evolves, we open our doors by bringing in more voices and  perspectives to support our continued success. we provide  opportunities for our people to learn and practice new  ideas, behaviors and skills. to support whole individuals, we  provide care systems and rewards, including competitive  wages	and	benefits	focused	on	our 	employees’	 well-being.	 listening to employees hershey’s continuous listening strategy includes ongoing  two-way dialogue with employees via quarterly surveys,  small group discussions and real-time feedback at key  moments during the employee experience. the insights  obtained are used to identify drivers of engagement and  inform enhancements to our people practices and policies.  data	from	the	fourth	quarter 	of	 	shows	that	employee	 engagement is strong and employee expectations are  being met or exceeded. when looking at demographic  breakdowns, trends are highly consistent with enterprise- level results.  development for all we know from listening that career growth and  development are priorities for employees and we have  implemented several programs in response to this  feedback. recent investments in development include the  launch of a formal mentoring program, expansion of our  pathways to grow accelerated experiential development  program, and development for all philosophy, which is  focused on customized development plans tailored to  individual employees’ career goals. → for data related to hershey’s employee engagement survey  results, see page  .pay equity being named as one of the world’s top female friendly  companies	by 	forbes	was	a	powerful	affirmation	of	 our commitment to gender equity. we are committed  to providing equal pay for equal work. we periodically  conduct pay practice reviews to assess how women are  paid compared to men globally, and, in the u.s., we also  monitor how employees from underrepresented ethnic/ racial backgrounds are paid compared to their white  counterparts. achieving pay parity by gender — and race  — is an integral part of that commitment and an area in  which	we	are	making	steady 	progress.	in	 ,	 we	reached	 aggregate pay equity for women across our u.s. workforce.  then,	in	 ,	 we	went	beyond	that	milestone	and	achieved	 aggregate pay equity for our u.s. salaried people of color  (poc)	team	members.	in	 ,	 we	maintained	these	fair 	 and equitable pay achievements. now, we're setting our  sights across our global workforce to achieve pay equity for  similar job categories across our global salaried employees  by	 .	supporting mental health mental health remains a key concern for employees and  their families. we value the well-being of our people and  have invested in providing critical support to help both  managers and employees function well both in and out  of	work.	in	 ,	hershey 	and	our	mental	health	provider 	 conducted sessions to help managers care for themselves  and	their 	employees,	and	also	offered	sessions	for 	all	 employees.  beginning	in	 january	 ,	we	expanded	mental	health	 support and improved access to care via a new vendor  and employee assistance program (eap). we conducted  orientation sessions in our plants to educate employees on  the	capabilities	of	the	new 	provider 	and	are	offering	on-site	 appointments	 with	counselors.	 this	new 	program	offers	 personalized support and resources to help employees  manage daily challenges such as building healthier habits,  family	care,	 / 	crisis	support	and	substance	abuse,	as	 well as clinical support for anxiety and depression. there is  no	cost	to	participate	in	up	to	 	therapy 	and	 	coaching	 sessions	per 	year	for	benefit-eligible	employees	and	each	 individual living in their household (ages  +). employee well-being  and development why it matters hershey depends on a broad and diverse  workforce. amid the lingering impact  of the pandemic, today’s workers have  changed their expectations and are looking  for mental health and well-being support  in the workplace. this trend is placing  pressure on employers to enhance their  approach to valuing human capital by  providing attractive careers, flexible work  arrangements and an environment that  embraces inclusivity. the ongoing cost of  living	crisis	is	also	top	of	mind	for 	 %	of	 ceos, as they balance retaining talent with  responding to employee demands for higher  wages.  these challenges can be heightened  when trying to attract talent to locations  that	lack 	a	sufficient	pool	of	qualified	talent.	 a company’s approach to issues such as  employee well-being, an inclusive workplace  and flexible work options are increasingly  seen	as	differentiators	 when	it	comes	to	 attracting and retaining talent.  	kpmg	 	ceo	outlook 	|	kpmg   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report salient human rights issue: gender and social inequality hershey’s coverage of  diabetic medication and  supplies has enhanced  the opportunity for self- care for my spouse and  me. this is truly life- changing and we are  beyond appreciative!” hershey employee benefits recipient  the hershey company   esg reportcare systems & flexibility we	provide	a	comprehensive	array 	of	benefits	to	support	 our employees in their well-being, work-life balance and  plans	for 	their	future.	in	 ,	 we	introduced	industry- leading	parental	leave	benefits	for 	both	salaried	and	 hourly employees. we enhanced our parental leave policy  and	now 	offer	up	to	six 	weeks	of	parental	leave	for 	hourly	 employees and have increased our parental leave for  salaried	employees	from	six 	to	 	weeks	with	a	potential	 maximum	of	 	 weeks	paid	leave. 	this	enhanced	benefit	 recognizes the importance of providing care systems for  our employees	and	making	their 	well-being	a	priority.	 benefits overview the hershey company provides valuable medical plans and  a	host	of	comprehensive	benefit	programs	and	resources	to	 help our employees and their families manage their health.  u.s. hershey employees, wherever they live, have access  to health care coverage that allows individuals to make  private, personal choices regarding the care or treatment  they may receive.  • travel coverage is also available for medical procedures  if	medical	services	are	not	available	 within	 	miles	of	 employee’s home. • we	continue	to	offer 	teledoc	for 	 / 	virtual	access	to	 u.s.	board-certified	physicians	for 	non-emergency 	health	 care support and services for behavioral health issues. • our	pharmacy 	copay	assistance	program	helps	offset	the	 cost of select specialty pharmacy medications, and we  now	cover	 %	of	costs	for 	all	diabetes	medication	and	 supplies. • to	promote	employee	fitness,	 we	maintain	several	fitness	 centers for employees and their families. the fitness  center and amenities at our corporate headquarters in  pennsylvania are free to all employees, retirees, spouses  and adult dependents. a	full	list	of	benefits	may 	be	found	on	our 	benefits	 web	 page.  family friendly, flexible work options we’re acting to meet the needs of today’s workers.  through our best of both program, our work environment  today is flexible and family friendly, helping employees  to manage the demands of their work and personal lives.  many of the changes introduced in recent years are now  a permanent part of the way we work. we provide a more  flexible working model for all employees, regardless of role,  which helps attract a more diverse workforce. we have  improved scheduling for manufacturing teams and retail  employees while supporting a hybrid virtual/in-person work  approach for corporate employees. for example, we are  promoting flex and time use through reduced overtime.  we have increased dedicated and flex trainers including  bilingual trainers for our spanish-speaking colleagues.  we	continue	to	offer 	competitive	rewards	and	benefits	 including alternate work schedules that have resulted in  the	lowest	overtime	levels	in	five	 years	and	 year-over-year 	 reduction in attrition. likewise, comparable investments in  our employees have resulted in reduced attrition, increased  fill	rates	and	increased	diversity. our	suite	of	smartflex 	benefit	policies	enable	individuals	to	 create their own balance between work and personal life. it  is designed to improve productivity, boost job satisfaction  and increase employee engagement. these policies include  parental leave, flexible technology arrangements, flexible  time management, and family flex designations. supporting employees beyond the workplace • hershey scholars program: a competitive scholarship  program providing support to hershey employees’  children pursuing post-secondary education.  scholarships are awarded for up to four years for students  seeking undergraduate degrees and other post- secondary educational opportunities.  • hershey	employees	 st	fund:	 an employee relief fund  that provides grants to individual employees facing  disaster or hardships. this employee assistance fund  is made up of donations from the company as well as  from hershey employees to help fellow employees and  their	families	in	times	of	need	or 	unexpected	financial	 hardship. engaging with unions the employees at our manufacturing facilities who craft  our world-class products perform valuable jobs and enjoy  competitive	 wages	and	benefits.	in	doing	so,	they 	report	 strong engagement with their work. our plant facilities  offer	open	communications	and	collaboration	as	part	of	our 	 employee experience. at some facilities, our manufacturing  employees are represented by labor organizations and  operate under collective bargaining agreements. our  labor relations are conducted in the spirit of collaboration  for	the	benefit	of	employees	and	the	company.	in	 ,	 approximately 	 %	of	our 	employees	 worldwide	 were	 covered by collective bargaining agreements. these  employees have the opportunity to renegotiate agreements  with hershey at a regular cadence, and like all of our  other employees, have access to grievance processes and  procedures, including our concern line.  → learn more about our rightsholder engagement in cocoa in  protecting the environment on pages  - .   	enhanced	benefits	became	effective	on	 jan.	 ,	 	for 	 professional employees and hourly employees.   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report employee well-being and development   continued the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report investing in development  to create tomorrow developing tomorrow’s leaders hershey	has	intensified	our 	efforts	to	build	a	talent	pipeline	 of	future	leaders.	in	 ,	 we	launched	a	robust	talent	 assessment process to feed our director and critical role  pipeline with commercially oriented talent. we assessed  talent against six areas that are predictive of future success.  these development potential competency areas include  learning, motivation, thinking, interpersonal, leadership and  communication. development potential is now part of a  multi-year approach to invest deeper into the organization  to generate a supply of future leaders for business  continuity. this program supplements hershey’s already  established	talent	pipeline	efforts	geared	at	ensuring	that	 we have a solid and diverse bench for our most critical  enterprise roles. mentoring makes us stronger we encourage leaders and employees to own their careers  through our stronger & growing together mentoring  program. we understand the importance of not only  training opportunities but also social and experiential  learning from internal experts. they also develop key skills  needed to advance their own future and grow our business. hershey empowers all employees with  opportunities to learn, grow and lead in  their roles. at the hershey company, we invest in everyone, value  our employees, and appreciate what they bring to our  innovation and growth. to retain and attract top-tier  talent, we are committed to providing our employees with  experiences	filled	 with	the	opportunity 	to	excel.	 we’re	 stronger together when each employee can achieve  their best.  development at hershey means empowering our people to  learn and practice new ideas, behaviors and skills. enabling  our people to develop themselves for tomorrow while  executing with excellence today is critical to our long-term  success.	 we	offer 	a	variety	of	programming,	tools,	and	 resources for skill building and development planning. learning opportunities since	 ,	 we	have	partnered	 with	leading	online	content	 experts and increased internal learning development to  expand our catalog of online and classroom courses to  more	than	 , .	 this	unique	combination	of	 world- class resources, genuine responsibility and authentic  experience makes hershey a place where employees can  become	leaders	in	their 	fields.	the	majority 	of	our	executive	 officers	were	promoted	from	 within	the	organization.	 as	 part	of	our 	development	for 	all	initiative,	 %	of	hershey 	 employees have access to our learning system to receive  and	participate	in	training	opportunities.	of	those,	 %	 accessed	and	completed	training	in	 .	our 	 	 training and development investments totaled more  than $ . 	million.	 the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report by taking big strides together on our  holistic dei strategy, the pathways  project, we’re welcoming, including  and helping to advance people inside —  and outside — of hershey.  diversity is a source of energy and innovation at the  hershey company. we have a long-standing commitment  to foster an inclusive environment where all employees  around the world can bring their whole selves to work  each day. we strive to positively address dei through  programs and policies to champion diversity, while avoiding  discrimination of any kind within our company and along  our supply chain. at the core is the pathways project,	 a	five-year 	plan	to	make	 our workforce and communities even more inclusive. co- created with a diverse group of employees who shared their  experiences, this plan maps our journey to truly advance  inclusion in our business and our communities. pathways  helps us hold ourselves accountable to achieve our goals.  we use it to inform our business decisions and ensure that  dei stays at the forefront of making moments of goodness,  together. while	 	 was	a	year	of	vision	casting	and	strategy-setting,	  	was	a	year	of	integration.	 across	the	enterprise,	our 	 leaders and people embraced our vision and adopted  it as our new way of operating. our intentional actions  yielded tangible results. we saw increased transparency  and an inclusive tone at the top, under the leadership of  the executive team and led by our ceo, michele buck.  we accelerated our engagement with employees as we  embedded dei into the company — making it real and  actionable every day.our ceo and her direct reports hold their teams  accountable	to	living	dei.	in	 ,	enterprise	dei	goals	 were linked to executive team performance and are  considered by the compensation and human capital  committee	as	part	of	their 	assessment	of	non-financial	 performance factors in determining annual incentive  payouts for our executives. progress toward our goals  was reviewed quarterly with the executive team as well as  shared with	our 	board	of	directors	and	business	resource	 groups (brgs). as part of our dei evolution, we are increasing transparency  related	to	our 	goals,	strategies	and	outcomes.	in	 ,	 we	 published	our 	consolidated	eeo- 	report,	 which	can	be	 found within the sustainability section of our website. → learn more at our corporate website here   www.thehersheycompany.com.  what’s next • continue	linking	our 	 	pathways	dei	strategy 	to	our	 leading snacking powerhouse goals • expand uses of dei to drive innovation in our commercial  business and enrich the employee experience dei is good business how hershey defines diversity:	refers	to	dimensions	of	difference	between	 people, often referred to in terms of race and gender.  at hershey, we also include dimensions such as  age, ethnicity, sexual orientation, veteran status and  physical abilities. people of color (poc): refers to black, african  american,	hispanic/latino,	 asian/asian	pacific	 islander,	hawaiian	pacific	islander 	and	those	 who	 identify as two or more races.dei is no longer a project at  hershey. it is embedded in  how we work, how we  energize our employees,  and how we partner with  consumers, customers and  the communities where we  do business.” alicia petross, chief diversity officer,  the hershey companymaterial esg issue: diversity, equity and inclusion (dei) salient human rights issue: gender and social inequality goodness works dei underpins our company values, behaviors and  our leader standards. our ceo and her leadership  team believe that diverse perspectives, inclusion, and  equitable practices and outcomes drive our business  and our culture.  dei is everyone’s responsibility and our code of  conduct reflects this: • treat others the way you’d like to be treated • celebrate diversity. listen and be receptive to  different	points	of	 view • speak up if you see or suspect discrimination or  harassment • promote a work environment free of harassment,  bullying and abusive conduct the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report we’re bringing in a wider range of talent  and perspectives as we strive toward  ambitious targets for recruitment.  through powerful partnerships with  educational institutions, we’re growing  tomorrow’s talent pool. we’re embedding more diverse people every time we  recruit employees and engage with suppliers. for the  search	and	hiring	process,	 we	set	goals	that candidate	 slates	 and	interview 	teams	will	consist	of	 %	diverse	individuals	 and	expanded	our 	goal	from	 %	(as	reported	in	our 	 	 esg	report)	to	 %	of	talent	acquisition	search	 volume	 done	with	search	firms	 will	be	conducted	by 	diverse-owned	 firms	by	 .	we	will	use	our 	purchasing	power 	to	advance	 social	equity 	by	spending	$ 	million	 with	diverse	 businesses	throughout	our 	supply	chain	by 	 . pathways to join is about bringing a wider range of talent  and perspectives into the hershey community. that begins  with	our	hiring	process.	in	 ,	diverse-owned	firms	 led  %	of	all	talent	acquisition	search	 volume.	 college recruiting we	maintained	 	historically 	black	colleges	and	 universities	(hbcu) and	hispanic-serving	institutions	 on our roster of universities and schools from which we  recruit.	in	 ,	these	institutions	constituted	 %	of	our 	 core	universities	and	schools,	and	provided	 %	of	our 	 candidates for entry-level positions.  milton hershey school  our unique relationship with milton hershey school  (mhs) enables us to connect with and create meaningful  opportunities for students, many of whom study in the  career	and	technical	education	program.	in	 ,	 we	 hired  	mhs	graduates.additionally,	 	mhs	students	obtained	their 	pre- apprenticeship	certification	through	a	collaboration	 with	 mhs and the manufacturers’ association of south central  pa (mascpa).  → learn more in providing education and opportunity  on pages  - .  welcoming veterans  we are proud of our legacy in supporting the u.s. military  dating to world war i when we supplied milk chocolate bars  to american soldiers. today, we continue that legacy by  supporting military members and their families transitioning  back to civilian life. the veterans brg provides a sense of  togetherness for those with military service to aid in that  transition and is paramount to our recognition in being a  leader in veteran inclusion. to further our commitment,  we are deepening our partnerships with three military  hiring	organizations	to	expand	military-affiliated	hiring	 across salaried and hourly positions. our goal is to drive an  increase	of	 %	in	military 	hires	during	 .	more pathways to join  hershey  says “hola”  to hispanic  workers in  hazleton, pacase study through	the	say 	hola	project,	 we	launched	our 	first	 bilingual manufacturing plant in hazleton, pennsylvania.  we’re proud that today both spanish- and english- speaking employees work seamlessly side-by-side in a  bilingual environment to create the goodness inside. the  hazleton	plant	employs	more	than	 	spanish-speaking	 employees and our workplace reflects the communities in  which	our 	colleagues	live.	in	the	past	 	 years,	hazleton’s	 hispanic population	has	grown	from	 %	to	more	than	 %. among other changes at the plant, we now conduct  training in both english and spanish and feature all signs,  labels and forms in both languages. bilingual employees  and resources are available on the plant floor to help with  communication, and workers can use a toll-free phone  number	for	translation	assistance	on	a	 / 	basis.	members	 of our latino business resource group (lbrg) played a  key role in planning and rolling out say hola and continue  to be key leaders in the program. the results speak for themselves: we’ve improved retention,  are attracting more experienced workers and reduced  recruitment	costs	since	the	effort	began.	for 	example,	 more	than	 %	of	the	job	candidates	now 	have	the	desired	 manufacturing	experience,	compared	to	a	 %	rate	before	 the program began. in this way and others, say hola  supports	our 	people-first	manufacturing	strategy,	as	 we	 keep pace with increasing consumer demand and grow our  business in new ways. the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report our supplier diversity program we aim to have the suppliers we work with represent the  customers and consumers we serve. this is critical for  innovation and business success. in fact, we are well on our  way toward our goal of increasing our spend with diverse  suppliers	to	$ 	million	by 	 .	this	trend	grew 	in	 	 as we increased our overall spend with diverse suppliers  by	 %	—	from	$ 	million	to	$ 	million,	 with	nearly 	 	 diverse suppliers. we are also on track to quintuple our tier    program (when non-diverse suppliers report their spend  with	diverse	suppliers)	from	 	to	 	suppliers.  this growth will help promote economic equality and  opportunity for diverse businesses — those owned by  people of color, women, veterans, lgbtq and disabled  people. this is more than an aspiration for us — it is a  business imperative and a mandate from our ceo,  michele buck.	 welcoming diverse-owned businesses we became new members of weconnect, disabilityin,  national veterans business development council, and  the national gay and lesbian chamber of commerce  to better access and support diverse supplier networks.  these relationships are in addition to our memberships in  the national minority supplier development council and  women’s business enterprise national council.  as we look to expand our program beyond the u.s.,  we partnered with weconnect and surveyed current  suppliers based outside the u.s. to assess whether any are  women-owned.	based	on	the	results,	due	in	early 	 ,	 we’ll develop a plan to grow our business with them and  connect with new prospective woman-owned suppliers  internationally. procurement data in	 ,	 we	built	a	dashboard	to	provide	procurement	 and supplier relationship managers with real-time access  to supplier diversity data, including non-diverse supplier  progress and performance on tier   supplier diversity. our  team members consider this information in their sourcing  decisions	and	supplier 	discussions.	in	 ,	this	dashboard	 will be formally integrated into a holistic supplier scorecard  alongside other weighted business metrics. finally, we engaged an external consultant to benchmark  our diverse spend across key procurement categories. this  will allow us to identify the areas of greatest opportunity  to increase our diverse spend and form the foundation for  category-specific	actions. what’s next • launch	our 	first	enterprise-wide	goal	to	engage	a	 diverse slate of prospective suppliers for requests for  proposal	 worth	$ , 	or 	more.	this	goal	is	linked	to	 each executive team member’s performance plan and  cascades to their direct reports and teams. • launch an e-learning course about our program,  including its history, importance and goals. • re-establish our supplier diversity champion program to  partner more deeply with each function to drive progress  toward our goals.  	diverse	spend	includes	formal	industry-recognized	certification	and	self-certification,	and	 tier	 	and	tier	 	spend	 with	 u.s.-based	suppliers.	diverse	suppliers	refers	to	businesses	that	are	 %	owned,	managed	and	controlled	by 	women	 and/or black, hispanic, asian, indigenous, u.s. military veteran, lgbtq+ and disabled persons, or other individuals that  qualify as socioeconomically disadvantaged.more pathways to join  continued  i am so beyond grateful to the  hershey company for helping  reduce the stress on my mother…  this scholarship has provided a  large amount of relief. it's also  encouraging to know that the  hershey company believes in my  future aspirations.” adeola adedeji, howard university  student and hershey tmcf endowment  scholarship recipient we’re expanding the pipeline of exceptional college  graduates with food science skills by funding scholarships  through the thurgood marshall college fund (tmcf). in  december 	 ,	hershey 	became	the	first	company 	to	 endow	a	tmcf	scholarship	 with	a	$ . 	million	investment.	 we	have	contributed	$ , 	since	then,	including	 $ , 	in	 .	 we	aim	to	increase	that	to	a	total	of	 $ 	million	over 	a	period	of	 	 years.	the	fund	represents	 and	supports	the	ambitions	of	nearly 	 , 	students	 attending	 	member 	schools	that	include	public	hbcus,	 medical schools and law schools. our investment provides  scholarships for students pursuing degrees in food science  at tmcf member schools, which include public colleges  that provide advanced education for underrepresented  populations. in addition to this funding, we collaborated across key  functional areas (retail, finance, supply chain and  engineering) to attract tmcf talent by leading career  information workshops through which we reached    students.	case study $ m  f $  million funded as part of our diverse student  scholarships commitment which began in   $      ,       in dei contributions to nonprofits  supporting black youthinvesting in  food science  students the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report across our communities, we  improve access to education for  underrepresented students, empower  our brgs to connect with consumers in  new ways, and support volunteerism. we are investing in the changes that are building the  communities we want to see: where underrepresented  groups have a clear and accessible path to quality  education and where everyone feels seen, heard  and supported. our commitment is to serve and support the local  communities of all our stakeholders, from our home in  the heart of pennsylvania to the diverse areas where we  operate around the world. as a part of this commitment,  we are making an impact through educational investments,  community programming and dei initiatives with supply  chain partners. we proudly continued our partnerships with  equal justice initiative and asian americans advancing  justice	in	 	and	added	league	of	united	latin	 american citizens to our roster of partners.during	the	 year,	our 	dei-focused	 volunteer 	efforts	 included several mentorship programs, including our  long-standing engagement with students at milton  hershey school. our employees also mentored students  at the dauphin county technical school and across  local school districts and young people in the naacp  act-so achievement program of harrisburg. the act- so program recognizes and supports young people  from underrepresented communities who demonstrate  academic,	scientific	and	artistic	achievement. what’s next • deepen mhs and hershey talent pipeline • continued support of thurgood marshall college  fund, eji	and	naacp act-so	partnershipsmore pathways to reach out the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report more pathways to grow  we recognize and develop talent from  groups that have traditionally been  underrepresented. we are creating  an environment where colleagues can  operate with courage and learn from  each other. we’re capitalizing on the strength of existing talent by  improving access to training and resources on leadership,  racism, unconscious bias and well-being. we continue to  invest in early-in-career and mid-career development and  training to expand commercial skills and career building for  poc and women. we implemented multiple ways to equip and engage  current employees while continuing to increase diversity  and foster inclusion.  building business acumen  our pathways to grow flagship educational program  focuses on building the skills entry-level poc associates  need for advancement to manager level roles. this program,  initially	launched	in	 ,	is	an	intensive	five-month,	 cohort-based curriculum culminating in a presentation  of a simulated learning project to leaders. throughout   - ,	 we	graduated	more	than	 	participants	from	 the program. these participants have a higher lateral and  upward promotion rate than the rest of the enterprise.  the	program	continues	in	 	 with	an	additional	   participants. unconscious bias training a new way of understanding our own thoughts and  perspectives is emerging from our second delivery of  unconscious bias training. we invite — and expect — all  employees	to	participate	in	the	training	offered	twice	a	 year at	times	designed	to	facilitate	participation.	during	  , employees	completed	 , 	hours	of	unconscious	 bias training. feedback and coaching for leaders we continued the conversations with our leaders on micro- aggressions, micro-advantages, inequities, micro-actions  and their impact on others. during leadership essentials  training, leaders practiced how to avoid micro-inequities  and micro-advantages.  what’s next • support accelerated development for emerging leaders  (known as development potential)  • conduct unconscious bias training for the third  consecutive year • continue pathways to grow with two cohorts • expand early in career development opportunities and  offer	career	development	 action	planning	 workshops  	graduates	of	the	program	are	promoted	at	a	rate	that	is	 %	higher 	than	 the promotion rate for colleagues who have not experienced the program.  pathways to growth graduates are also considered for additional programs  designed for early-in-career colleagues. the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report case study growing employee participation in our brgs delivered  outsized	enthusiasm	and	impact	during	 .	nearly 	 %	 of corporate employees now belong to at least one of  hershey’s eight employee-led brgs — abilities first, black  heritage,	 asian	and	pacific	islander,	genh	(generations),	 latino, prism (lgbtq), veterans and women — which are  crucial to attracting diverse talent and providing mentoring  and career development opportunities. brgs also deliver  business insights, influence company policy, and connect  people to the company and the communities where  we	work.	learn	more	in celebrating	 women	and	 youth	 through	our 	brands	on	page	 .	below 	are	some	examples	 of the many actions taken by our brgs in the past year. black heritage brg: • played a key role in conceiving and executing black music  month,	a	promotion	to	close	a	$ 	million	share	gap	 with black consumers and support black youth through  meaningful	nonprofit	partnerships • co-created our second annual juneteenth all-company  celebration featuring ceo michele buck asian & pacific islander: • designed and delivered lunar new year celebration at  hershey’s	chocolate	 world,	reaching	more	than	 , 	 visitors across four retail locations • influenced lunar new year gift wrapping and  merchandise in hershey’s chocolate worldwomen’s brg: • partnered with the hershey’s brand team and creatives  for the launch of the celebrate she bars during women’s  history month abilities first brg: • continued our partnership with the national  organization on disability and contributed to our  recognition	as	a	 	leading	disability 	employer • hosted an all-employee town hall featuring senior leaders  who transparently shared their personal experiences with  mental	health,	after 	which	our 	disability 	self-identification	 rate	increased	from	 %	to	 %.	how our brgs are  driving retention  and development more pathways to grow  continued i am proud to support  removing barriers and  increasing access to  educational opportunities  for underrepresented  communities. being  intentional is a key factor  in the success of our  aspiration to expand  talent pipelines across  our organization.”  tory niceswander, manager employee  relations, dei and esg programs,  the hershey company goals the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report our progress employees unit     notes global employees: total # of employees  ,   ,    full-time # of employees  ,   ,    part-time # of employees  ,   ,    union representation collective bargaining employees %  %  %    	data	in	this	table	for 	 	and	 		total	global,	full-time	and	part-time	employees	includes	hershey,	lily’s,	dot’s	and	pretzels	and	is	consistent	 with	employee	headcount	data	as	reported	in	 hershey’s	 	form	 -k.   the	 	percentage	of	employees	covered	by 	collective	bargaining	agreements	includes	employees	 worldwide.people goals target y earprogress (as of dec.  ,   ) goal status notes achieve pay equity for similar job categories across our global salaried  employees   in  , we  maintained fair  and equitable pay  achievements,  including  :   aggregate people  of color pay  equity for salaried  employees in the  united states  ( ) and  :   aggregate gender  pay ( ).on track —  – % women representation across all employees globally    . % achieved —  – % people of color (poc) representation across u.s. employees    . % on track    % hazard reduction for job functions with ergonomic risks through process  improvements %on track —  	poc	refers	to	black,	 african	american,	hispanic/latino,	 asian/asian	pacific	islander,	hawaiian	pacific	islander 	and	those	 who	identify 	as	two	or 	more	races. kpis kpis the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report employees      total female male total female male total female male global employees  ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,  full-time  ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,  part-time  ,       ,       ,      regular  ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,  temporary  ,             ,   ,    note:	race/ethnicity 	and	gender 	data	in	this	table	are	based	on	employee	self-identification	in	hershey’s	hr	data	system	as	of	december 	 ,	 .	 this	employee	data	does	not	include	hershey’s	recent	acquisition	of	pretzels. employees by type and region      regular temporary regular temporary regular temporary globally  ,   ,   ,     ,   ,  united states (including puerto rico)  ,     ,     ,    non-u.s.  ,     ,     ,    asia  ,     ,     ,    africa             north america             europe             latin america  ,     ,     ,    note:	data	in	this	table	is	based	on	information	from	hershey’s	hr	data	system	as	of	december 	 ,	 .	 this	employee	data	does	not	include	hershey’s	recent	acquisition	of	pretzels. global workforce by age      under   years  old -  years old over   years  oldunder   years  old -  years old over   years  oldunder   years  old -  years old over   years  old total workforce  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . % non-management  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . % management  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . % senior leader  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . % executive team  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . %  . % note:   data	in	this	table	is	based	on	information	from	hershey’s	hr	data	system	as	of	december 	 ,	 .	 this	employee	data	does	not	include	hershey’s	recent	acquisition	of	pretzels,	inc.			  data	may 	not	equal	 %	due	to	rounding.  hershey’s executive team includes employees who report to hershey’s ceo, including the ceo. kpis the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report u.s. workforce by hershey internal job category    female poc female poc executives/senior leaders  . %  . %  . %  . % entry-level professional employees  . %  . %  . %  . % leaders in commercial functions  . %  . %  . %  . % sales employees  . %  . %  . %  . % hourly manufacturing employees  . %  . %  . %  . % note:   data in this table represents hershey internal hr job category data and does not directly correlate to eeoc job category data.  data	in	this	table	is	based	on	employee	self-identification	in	hershey’s	hr	data	system	as	of	december 	 ,	 .	 this	employee	data	does	not	include	hershey’s	recent	acquisition	of	pretzels,	inc.	 u.s. workforce by race/ethnicity unit       u.s. workforce, total poc %  . %  . %  . % u.s. workforce, white %  . % not disclosed not disclosed poc - female %  . %  . %  . % poc - male %  . %  . %  . % asian %  . %  . % not disclosed black %  . %  . % not disclosed hispanic/latino %  . %  . % not disclosed note:	race/ethnicity 	and	gender 	percentages	are	based	on	employee	self-identification	in	hershey’s	hr	data	system	as	of	december 	 ,	 .	data	in	this	table	does	not	include	hershey’s	recent	acquisition	of	pretzels,	inc.	 u.s. non-management unit       total non-management as percentage of total workforce %  . %  . %  . % non-management	–	female %  . %  . %  . % non-management	–	male %  . %  . %  . % non-management	–	poc %  . %  . %  . % non-management	–	female	–	poc %  . %  . %  . % non-management	–	male	–	poc %  . %  . %  . % non-management	–	 asian %  . %  . % not disclosed non-management	–	black %  . %  . % not disclosed non-management	–	hispanic/latino %  . %  . % not disclosed note:	race/ethnicity 	and	gender 	percentages	are	based	on	employee	self-identification	in	hershey’s	hr	data	system	as	of	december 	 ,	 .	data	in	this	table	does	not	include	hershey’s	recent	acquisition	of	pretzels,	inc.	 kpis the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report u.s. management unit       total management as percentage of total workforce %  . %  . %  . % management	–	female %  . %  . %  . % management	–	male %  . %  . %  . % management	–	poc %  . %  . %  . % management	–	female	–	poc %  . %  . %  . % management	–	male	–	poc %  . %  . %  . % management	–	 asian %  . %  . % not disclosed management	–	black %  . %  . % not disclosed management	–	hispanic/latino %  . %  . % not disclosed note:   management level data includes hershey people leaders or employees at an internal pay band level of  b or higher. this data is not mutually exclusive and overlaps with some headcount also included in the senior leader level  data	below,	 which	includes	employees	at	an	internal	pay 	band	level	of	 b	or 	higher.  race/ethnicity 	and	gender 	percentages	are	based	on	employee	self-identification	in	hershey’s	hr	data	system	as	of	december 	 ,	 .	data	in	this	table	does	not	include	hershey’s	recent	acquisition	of	pretzels,	inc.	 u.s.  senior leader unit       total senior leader as percentage of total workforce %  . %  . %  . % senior	leader	–	female %  . %  . %  . % senior	leader	–	male %  . %  . %  . % senior	leader	–	poc %  . %  . %  . % senior	leader	–	female	–	poc %  . %  . %  . % senior	leader	–	male	–	poc %  . %  . %  . % senior	leader	–	asian %  . %  . %  . % senior	leader	–	black %  . %  . %  . % senior	leader	–	hispanic/latino %  . %  . %  . % note:  senior	leader	level	data	includes	hershey 	people	leaders	or 	employees	at	an	internal	pay 	band	level	of	 b	or 	higher.	this	data	is	not	mutually 	exclusive	and	overlaps	 with	some	headcount	also	included	in	the	management	level	 data above, which includes employees at an internal pay band level of  b or higher. race/ethnicity 	and	gender 	percentages	are	based	on	employee	self-identification	in	hershey’s	hr	data	system	as	of	december 	 ,	 .	data	in	this	table	does	not	include	hershey’s	recent	acquisition	of	pretzels,	inc.	 proportion of senior management hired from the local community %  . %  . %  . % note:    	local	employees	/ 	total	external	hires	at	significant	locations).  “senior	management”	is	defined	as	individuals	hired	as	senior 	manager 	and	above	(up	to	senior 	vice	president	 within	the	c-suite).  “local”	is	defined	as	a	permanent	resident	at	time	of	hire	in	one	of	the	following	locations	in	the	usa:	pennsylvania,	new 	jersey,	new 	york,	ohio,	 west	virginia,	 virginia,	maryland,	district	of	columbia	and	delaware.  “significant	locations	of	operation”	is	defined	as	the	following	locations:	 	east	office,	 amplify	 	east	office,	 annville	fulfillment	center,	hazleton	plant,	hbg	intl	 airport	flt	ops,	hcw 	visitors	center,	licensingco	 	east	 office,	reese	plant,	sales	co	hcw 	visitors	center,	sales	co	office	northeast,	salesco	 	east	office,	sourcing	co	 	east	office,	sourcing	co	 tech	center,	stuarts	draft	plant,	 technical	center,	 west	hershey 	plant	and	 y&s	 lancaster plant. kpis the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report executive team unit       total executive team %	of	total	 workforce  . %  . %  . % females on executive team # of females       executive	team	–	female %  . %  . %  . % executive	team	–	male %  . %  . %  . % executive	team	–	poc #       executive	team	–	poc %  . %  . %  . % executive team - female - poc %  . %  . %  . % executive team - male - poc %  . %  . %  . % note:   the executive team includes employees who report to hershey’s ceo, including the ceo.  race/ethnicity 	and	gender 	percentages	are	based	on	employee	self-identification	in	hershey’s	hr	data	system	as	of	december 	 ,	 .	data	in	this	table	does	not	include	hershey’s	recent	acquisition	of	pretzels,	inc.	   q  global employee engagement resultsglobal  enterpriseage/generation gender (global) boomer gen x gen y gen z male female employee engagement (enps)               intent to stay  %  %  %  %  %  %  % expectations (meet/exceed)  %  %  %  %  %  %  % note:	this	employee	engagement	data	represents	results	from	 the	hershey 	company's	 	q 	continuous	listening	survey,	 which	included	both	salaried	and	hourly 	hershey 	employees.   q  u.s. employee engagement results by race/ethnicity asian black latino  or more race/ ethnicities white employee engagement (enps)           intent to stay  %  %  %  %  % expectations (meet/exceed)  %  %  %  %  % note:	this	employee	engagement	data	represents	results	from	 the	hershey 	company's	 	q 	continuous	listening	survey,	 which	included	both	salaried	and	hourly 	hershey 	employees. the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report parental leave      female male total female male total female male total entitled to parental leave                   took intermittent leave                   took continuous leave                   employees who did not elect                   returned to work                   return to work rate  %  %  %  %  %  %  %  %  % note:	we	adhere	to	all	relevant	laws	and	regulations	for 	maternity 	and	paternity 	leave	globally.	outside	of	the	u.s.	individual	instances	of	parental	leave	are	monitored;	however,	they 	are	not	aggregated.	 there	are	no	specific	plans	to	aggregate	this	data. pathways to join unit       notes diverse candidate slates %	  % not available not available   total	search	 volume	led	by 	diverse-owned	firms %  % not available not available    	goal	is	 %   goal	is	 % supplier diversity unit       notes total spent with diverse suppliers usd (in millions) $  $  not available   proportion of spending on local suppliers %  %  %  %    	in	 ,	we	established	a	goal	to	increase	our 	spend	with	diverse	suppliers	to	$ 	million	by 	 .		our 	 	total	spend	 was	originally 	disclosed	as	$ 	million.		 this	value	has	been	restated	as	 we	became	aware	of	a	cocoa	 supplier	who	meets	our 	definition	for 	diverse	suppliers,	 who	had	not	been	included	previously.   these results show the percentage of our procurement budget spent on local suppliers based in the same country as the hershey facility to which they were supplying goods or services. note:   diverse	spend	includes	formal	industry-recognized	certification	and	self-certification,	and	 tier	 	and	tier	 	spend	 with	u.s.-based	suppliers.	diverse	suppliers	refers	to	businesses	that	are	 %	owned,	managed	and	controlled	by 	women	and/or 	 black, hispanic, asian, indigenous, u.s. military veteran, lgbtq+ and disabled persons, or other individuals that qualify as socio-economically disadvantaged.kpis kpis the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report pathways to grow unit       online and classroom training courses available for employees # of courses  ,   ,  not available unconscious bias training completed # of hours  ,   ,  not available discussion related to unconscious bias training completed # of hours    ,  not available business resource groups (brgs) # of brgs     not available average hours of training per year  per employee      unit female male total female male total female male total total # of hours  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  full-time # of hours  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  part-time # of hours  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  note:	the	average	hours	of	training	shown	above	are	based	only 	on	training	hours	logged	through	hershey’s	learning	and	development	program.	 these	hours	do	not	account	for 	outside	team	or 	individual	training	programs	not	offered	through	hershey’s	centralized	system. new employees hired      # employees rate (%) # employees rate (%) # employees rate (%) new employees hired  ,   ,  not disclosed age group 	<     . %    . %    . % 	 -   ,   . %  ,   . %  ,   . % 	 -   ,   . %  ,   . %  ,   . % 	 -   ,   . %  ,   . %    . % 	 -     . %    . %    . % 	 +    . %    . %    . % gender  male  ,   . %  ,   . %  ,   . %  female  ,   . %  ,   . %  ,   . % region  asia    . %    . %    . %  north america  ,   . %  ,   . %  ,   . %  europe    . %    . %    . % latin america and the caribbean  ,   . %  ,   . %  ,   . % note:   this employee data does not include hershey’s recent acquisition of pretzels.    in	some	instances,	the	hire	rate	may 	be	more	than	 %.	 this	is	largely 	attributed	to	seasonal	part-time	employment.  new employee hire and turnover data for mexico is included in the latin america and caribbean region. kpis the hershey company   esg report   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report employee turnover      # employees rate (%) # employees rate (%) # employees rate (%) employee turnover  ,   ,  not disclosed age group 	<     . %    . %    . % 	 -   ,   . %  ,   . %  ,   . % 	 -   ,   . %  ,   . %  ,   . % 	 -   ,   . %  ,   . %    . % 	 -     . %    . %    . % 	 +    . %    . %    . % gender male  ,   . %  ,   . %  ,   . % female  ,   . %  ,   . %  ,   . % region  asia    . %    . %    . %  north america  ,   . %  ,   . %  ,   . %  europe    . %    . %    . % latin america and the caribbean  ,   . %  ,   . %  ,   . % note:   this employee data does not include hershey’s recent acquisition of pretzels.  in	some	instances,	the	turnover 	rate	may 	be	more	than	 %.	 this	is	largely 	attributed	to	seasonal	part-time	employment.  new employee hire and turnover data for mexico is included in the latin america and caribbean region. safety unit       total recordable incident rate (trir) rate  .   .   .  days away, restricted, transferred (dart) #  .   .   .  lost workday incident rate (lwir) rate  .   .   .  fatalities (work-related) #       note:	our 	rates	have	been	calculated	on	a	per 	 , -hours-worked	basis.	 we	meet	all	regulatory 	record-keeping	and	reporting	requirements	for 	work-related	injuries.	our 	statistics	include	all	 workers	who	are	not	employees	 but whose work is controlled by our organization.  we do not track metrics for contractors: each contractor company is responsible for gathering this information and reporting it according to local requirements. youth connecting kids to brighter futures is part of  our dna and a source of pride here at hershey.  every child deserves the chance to reach their  full potential. from the moment milton hershey founded a school for  orphaned	boys	in	 ,	 we've	been	guided	by 	a	vision	 to help children thrive. we do that by investing to help  children thrive, including their social emotional well-being,  education and nutrition.   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the hershey company   esg reportproviding education  and opportunity hershey honors business program students at mhs make real-world connections through  the hershey honors business program, which includes  business-focused mentoring and coaching from hershey  employees.	during	this	five-month	program,	employees	 serve as guest teachers on various business topics and  evaluate	students’	final	presentations in	 which	they 	pitch	 their own unique business ideas. at the conclusion of the   	program,	 	honor 	students	presented	their 	ideas	to	 ceo michele buck and other hershey leaders. proposals  included a new product (a kit kat® bar-dipped pretzel),  using meditation to improve employee well-being and  performance, and potential acquisition targets to empower  women-owned businesses. project fellowship  hershey employees and their families take part in monthly  activities and fun with mhs student homes through our  project fellowship program, which seeks to connect mhs  students with caring connections across their broader  community.	in	 ,	 	hershey 	company 	employees	 participated	in	regular 	activities	 with	 	student	homes.	through top-notch academics, personal  attention and character development,  milton hershey school provides all of its  students, pre-k through  th grade, the  opportunity to succeed. milton hershey school (mhs) is a place where high- potential disadvantaged students receive a life-changing  opportunity of an excellent private education, thanks to  our shared founder who created this early social enterprise.  milton hershey bequeathed his ownership of the hershey  company to milton hershey school trust (mhs trust), with  mhs	as	the	sole	beneficiary.	 the	mhs	 trust	continues	to	 be hershey’s largest shareholder and receives a substantial  portion of the dividends we pay each year. this unique  relationship	means	that	hershey’s	success	directly 	benefits	 the	school	and	more	than	 , 	students.	in	addition,	our 	 employees have the opportunity to participate in unique  volunteer programs with mhs that foster connection and  community 	with	the	students	and	staff.  mhs students achieved state- recognized pre-apprenticeship  certifications after teaching an advertising  class to the business honors  cohort, it was such a powerful,  full-circle moment to watch the  students present their final  presentations, while referencing  some of the topics we discussed,  such as social media channels  and demographic targets.” nomblé coleman, manager, omnichannel marketing,  the hershey company    contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report  providing education and opportunity   continued case study the hershey company   esg report supporting students in honor of william e. dearden our company collaborated with the mhs alumni  association and the william e. dearden foundation  to	create	the	first-ever 	dearden	foundation	and	 the	 hershey company joint scholarship for continuing  education,	 which	was	announced	in	 	as	part	of	the	 company’s stuarts draft, virginia, manufacturing facility’s   th	anniversary 	celebration.	 this	scholarship,	 which	 will be awarded to two students in the stuarts draft area,  continues the legacy of one of mhs’s most beloved alumni,  william e. dearden. mr. dearden was a graduate of milton  hershey school and went on to work not only at the school  but	also	at	 the	hershey 	company 	in	 .	mr.	dearden’s	 career at the hershey company spanned decades, and he  was	appointed	ceo	in	 .	mr.	dearden’s	legacy 	lives	on	 through the dearden foundation’s support of alumni from  the milton hershey school and of continuing education,  leadership and character development opportunities for  youth across hershey communities.  → learn more in the community chapter beginning on page  .  what’s next • continue to strengthen our relationship with mhs on  career preparation and pathways to employment • expand the william e. dearden foundation and hershey  company joint scholarship for continuing education to  additional u.s. manufacturing communities • maintain ongoing support of connection and well-being  for youthtwelve mhs students launched their careers by earning  pennsylvania state-recognized pre-apprenticeship  certifications	in	manufacturing.	 these	students	completed	 a	two-week 	certificate	program	taught	in	collaboration	 with the manufacturers’ association and the hershey  company 	that	exposed	them	to	the	different	skill	sets	 necessary 	to	succeed	in	the	field	of	manufacturing.	 students explored topics such as blueprint reading and  shop math to lean manufacturing, food safety and quality  control, in addition to earning their occupational safety  and	health	 administration	 	certification,	designating	the	 completion	of	 	hours	of	training. through	classroom	and	 hands-on learning, this opportunity debunks myths about  the	field	and	helps	students	gain	a	realistic	understanding	 of manufacturing and available career options. this and  other mhs programs showcase our commitment to youth  and	amplifies	our 	talent	development	efforts.	based	on	 the	positive	outcomes,	 we	plan	to	enroll	 	students	in	this	 program	in	 . allowing students to earn a  state-recognized pre- apprenticeship certificate in  manufacturing exposes them  to this vast career field. the    students who completed this  program have shown real  initiative. i have no doubt that  the skills they learned will fit  well into the real world.” sheila ciotti, mhs director of college  and career readiness and supportapprentice  program  launches  careers   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report case study the hershey company   esg reportthe heartwarming  project the loneliness epidemic is fueling  a mental health crisis, as young  people today report feeling lonelier  than any other generation,  and  teens struggle with stress, anxiety  and other mental health challenges.  research has shown  that increasing social and  emotional skills, such as practicing empathy and  inclusion, and fostering meaningful connections  with peers, adults and the community, can make all  the	difference	for 	improving	 youth	outcomes	and	 well-being. our heartwarming project (hwp) is  designed to help kids and teens build critical social  and emotional skills and celebrate the power of  connection for their well-being. we also work with  nonprofit	partners	to	inspire,	encourage	and	highlight	 young people who take action to create more  inclusive, empathetic communities.  → for a summary of our heartwarming project data,  see page  .heartwarming  project action grants our support enabled the we well-being  program	to	provide	more	than	 , 	 teachers	a	 variety	of	resources,	including	k- 	 lesson plans focused on social, emotional and  service learning, a professional development  video series, a pbs x we animated series  with science-based tools and activities, and  activity cards and downloadable classroom  resources. in addition, hershey partnered with  we to co-sponsor the heartwarming project  action grants program,	 which	awarded	 	 action grants to teens sparking connection and  inclusion in their schools and communities,  including	two	profiled	below.	it isn’t what you  leave your  children but how  you leave them.” milton hershey  acts of kindness along with his brother, arizona student  pravneet founded project smile az,  an initiative to spread kindness in the  community by encouraging other  youth — who they call smile-makers —  to give back in any way they can. since  the project started, smile-makers have  crafted handmade cards for people in the  hospital, veterans and people experiencing  homelessness, donated gently used books  and much more. last year, pravneet ran a  book drive to support afghanistan refugees  in his community. with a heartwarming  project action grant, pravneet was able  to purchase supplies for his initiatives like  book bags and handmade cards, helping  spread messages of kindness even further.  books for kids of color  six years ago, florida student chase and his  little	brother 	created	a	nonprofit	called	eco	 brothers	that	rescued	books	from	landfills	 to donate to kids in need. since starting  eco brothers, they donated more than   , 	books	to	kids	in	 title	 	schools.	 along the way, they realized that the kids  to whom they were donating books weren’t  always represented in the characters and  stories. so they began fundraising in order  to purchase a wider range of books that  kept diversity in mind, ensuring that all  kids	could	find	a	book 	in	which	they 	could	 see themselves. with support from a  heartwarming project action grant, chase  can now help more kids access books in  which they can see themselves.my goal is a simple  math equation:  individual small acts of  kindness multiplied by  thousands of people  equals thousands of  acts of kindness!”  pravneet  	loneliness is at epidemic levels in america | cigna.   loneliness and social isolation as risk factors for mortality |  perspectives on psychological science.   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report case study the hershey company   esg report heartwarming  y oung heroes  as part of global youth service day, we sponsored youth  service america’s heartwarming young heroes grants  program,	 which	engaged	more	than	 , 	 youth	in	 	 projects worldwide. project topics included promoting  inclusion, celebrating diverse cultures, and building racial  equity as well as teaching empathy, protecting mental  health and creating kinder communities, among others.  we	profile	two	award	 winners	below.political pen pals debby c., age  , oakland, california debby,	a	first	generation	 american,	launched	a	pen	pal	 project	to	pair 	 	high	school	students	 with	different	 political ideologies to have open-minded conversations,  combat political divisiveness and build empathy with one  another. participants built friendships with someone they  otherwise would not have known. in the process, they  gained a greater understanding about various political  and social topics in a safe, nonjudgmental atmosphere.  in a follow-up survey, students shared that participating  in political pen pals gave them a new understanding and  perspective about an issue. for debby, acknowledging  the diversity and complexity in various perspectives can  help promote inclusion, understanding and empathy, and  encourage people to be civically engaged. y oung men planting seeds chase t., age  , st. petersburg, florida chase saw major changes to his south st. petersburg  community, including the closure of two grocery stores,  which turned the area into a food desert. chase recruited  volunteers to plant and provide fresh vegetables for  approximately 	 	members	of	the	community.	 while	 chase loved the ability to grow food for his neighbors, he  was equally excited for the indirect impact of his project:  youth and adults engaged with one another in meaningful  discussions about food access, youth valued their ability to  see how they have a stake in the community, and the event  led to cleanups across wider south st. petersburg.    contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the heartwarming project   continued the hershey company   esg reportinspiring kids through athletics during	the	second	 year	of	our sweeter 	together 	 project with bgc canada, we helped to refurbish  four basketball	courts,	provided	 	new 	backboards	 and	nets,	and	issued	 , 	team	kits	 with	hershey- inspired gear to club kids through the buy a bar, build  a court program.  hershey proudly continued its partnership with usa  track and field, sponsoring the runjumpthrow  program.	 this	provided	over 	 , 	participants	the	 opportunity to move, have fun, and learn track and  field	fundamentals	 via	one-day 	events,	six-week 	 programs, and special experiences with olympic  and elite athletes. this program has reached nearly   , 	kids	since	it	first	launched	 with	our	support	 in	 .supporting caring connections to meet the critical need to support the social and  emotional well-being of young people, we continued  working with a range of partners who provide opportunities  for connection, inclusion and belonging. here are some  highlights	from	 . • with hershey’s support, crisis text line created its  first-ever 	mental health school supplies toolkit, with  downloadable posters, coping resources, and social  assets for teens to share with their peers online in both  english and spanish. hershey’s collaboration also directly  supported	nearly 	 , 	text	conversations	 with	youth	 seeking mental health support from crisis text line.  • more	than	 , 	teens	from	across	the	u.s.	took 	action	 in	their	communities	through	the boys & girls clubs  of america’s keystone clubs. with hershey’s support  for local clubs in puerto rico; lancaster, pennsylvania;  denver, colorado; and rochester, new york, youth  practiced leadership, built character and made a  difference	in	their 	club	and	communities.	for 	example,	 after	devastating	 wildfires	came	 within	 	miles	of	their 	 club, members of the boys & girls clubs of metro denver  decided	to	create	 wildfire	education	tools	to	help	children	 better understand the issue and feel less afraid. after  researching the topic, they created visual aids and an  interactive	game	to	illustrate	how 	fires	spread	and	how 	to	 stay safe, sharing it with younger children and starting a  community 	dialogue	on	how 	to	reduce	the	threat	of	fires.• we continued our partnership with innerview , a service  learning	app	used	by 	 	schools	across	the	u.s.	 to	engage	over 	 , 	kids	 who	took 	part	in	nearly 	  , 	service	activities.	students	forged	meaningful	 connections as they created cards for hospitalized  kids, hosted intergenerational events, mentored other  students and led clubs focused on diversity, inclusion  and cross-cultural understanding and mental well-being  in	their	schools.	hershey’s	 	dedicated	 - 	 heartwarming project youth advisory board members  invested	more	than	 , 	service	hours	in	their 	schools.	 belonging, not bullying to counteract the prevalence of bullying, we sponsor  an annual sweeter together  project with bgc  canada (formerly boys and girls club of canada). the  high point of our partnership with bgc is pink shirt  day , when we help clubs celebrate a day dedicated  to anti-bullying and support children’s well-being.  hershey’s support included disseminating activation  toolkits for clubs to encourage youth to be kind and  create cultures of belonging where they live. our  support	also	provided	grants	to	 	clubs	to	run	their 	 own pink shirt day activities.  ,  hershey’s collaboration  directly supported nearly  ,   text conversations with youth  seeking mental health support  from crisis text linethe heartwarming project   continued   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the hershey company   esg reportgoals   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report the heartwarming project unit       children reached through the heartwarming project (hwp) partnerships # of children  , ,   , ,   , ,  youth	directly 	benefiting	from	hwp 	investments # of youth  ,   ,   ,  youth taking part in heartwarming actions # of youth  ,   ,   , our progress yo u t h target y earprogress (as of dec.  ,   ) goal status notes   million children globally supported through education, nutrition, and social  and emotional well-being   .  million on track    ,  children take heartwarming actions and impact their communities    ,  achieved    	more	than	 . 	million	children	 were	supported,	cumulatively 	from	january	 ,	 	to	december 	 ,	 .   more	than	 , 	children	took 	action	and	impacted	their 	communities,	cumulatively 	from	january	 ,	 	to	december 	 ,	 . kpis community hershey employees take great pride in living our  value of making a difference. we all carry on milton  hershey’s legacy of kindness, support and showing  up in our communities. we strive to enhance the places where we live and work  through programs that support basic needs, education and  workforce development, and advance inclusive community  economic development.  in addition to our philanthropic giving and product- donation programs, our remarkable people show up for  their communities in many ways, volunteering hundreds  of thousands of hours each year for the causes they  care about. our approach is to ask what each community needs from  us and	then	to	find	a	 way	to	answer 	that	need.    contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report working together for  stronger communities since our founding, hershey has been committed to  supporting the communities where our employees live  and work. we provide both philanthropic contributions  and	product	donations	to	nonprofit	organizations	in	 communities where we have a presence. in many instances,  we achieve even greater impact by pairing these donations  with employee volunteering.  we do not maintain a corporate foundation; instead, we  direct a portion of our annual consolidated net sales to  community 	philanthropic	endeavors.	in	 ,	 we	made	 contributions	that	approximated	 . %	of	our 	annual	net	 sales,	an	increase	from	 . %	in	 .	 the	company’s	giving	 guidelines, criteria and application portal are published  on our website, and we use these criteria when assessing  requests for both cash grants and product donations. our	long-standing	philanthropy 	and	volunteerism	efforts	 are managed by our global sustainability team, who  works closely with counterparts in each of our plant and  office	locations	across	the	u.s.	and	globally 	to	identify 	 local community needs and craft tailored approaches to  provide support. this work includes forging partnerships  with local non-governmental organizations (ngos),  providing grants and contributions, and organizing  volunteer 	service activities	and	employee	fundraisers.	 we	 encourage all grantees to provide impact reports with both  quantitative and qualitative data, and host annual meetings  with	ngo	partners	to	evaluate	the	effectiveness	of	our 	 philanthropic investments.when we all pitch in to make  a difference, our shared  communities flourish. in  :  helping employees give back hershey has long supported the causes important to  our employees through our matching gifts program  and workplace-giving campaigns, described below.  for	example,	 we	matched	more	than	$ . 	million	in	 employee	donations	to	nonprofit	organizations	in	 .	 • matching	gift	program:	up	to	$ , 	match	per 	 employee for charitable donations each calendar year • season	of	giving	campaign:	up	to	$ , 	match	per 	 employee for payroll deductions each calendar year • dollars	for 	doers	program:	$ 	donation	to	an	 employee’s	nonprofit	of	choice	after 	they	log	 	hours	 of volunteer service in a calendar year • employee volunteerism policy: employees receive up  to	two	days	of	paid	time	off	to	 volunteer celebrating in stuarts draft, virginia built	in	 ,	the	stuarts	draft	plant	has	seen	significant	 growth and expansion throughout the decades. over   , 	employees	are	now 	the	makers	of	more	than	 a dozen beloved brands produced at the plant. in  celebration	of	the	plant’s	 th	anniversary,	employees,	 retirees and families gathered for a day of festivities. the  company also announced a new initiative in partnership  with the william e. dearden foundation, which will  annually 	provide	$ , 	scholarships	to	two	high	school	 seniors pursuing continuing education opportunities  such	as	a	two-	or 	four-year 	degree,	a	trade	certification,	 professional license or an apprenticeship program. a  distinguished and highly respected alumnus of milton  hershey school, mr. dearden served as former chairman  of the board of the hershey company and oversaw the  construction of the hershey plant in stuarts draft.  → see supporting students in honor of william e. dearden on  page   for more information about mr. dearden’s legacy  with milton hershey school . + grants awarded to  nonprofit organizations   more than  %   of hershey’s corporate  grants supported  children and youth   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report supporting our u.s. communities  hershey’s corporate giving program focuses on  strengthening communities where we operate by  supporting basic needs, education and workforce  development, and by supporting a range of cultural  programs, events and activities that bring our  communities together 	and	make	them	more	inclusive. supporting our bilingual community in hazleton,  pennsylvania as the city of hazleton, pennsylvania, has adapted to a  growing latino population over the past decade, hershey  has sought to invest in this changing community. we  deepened our partnership with the hazleton integration  project (hip) by supporting the after-school, early  childhood and adult workforce development programs  delivered at its hazleton one community center. this  center	provides english	as	a	second	language	(esl)	and	 citizenship classes as well as job training programs for  latino community members. our partnership with hip has  been	critical	to	our 	efforts	to	support	our 	first	completely 	 bilingual	facility 	in	the	u.s.	 with	jobs	for 	 	spanish- speaking employees.  → learn more in hershey says hola to hispanic workers in  hazleton, pa on page  . expanding outreach in memphis, tennessee hershey’s memphis team deepened its support for several  longtime partners including the career and technical  education programs at kingsbury high school, to advance  local workforce development goals and pipelines to  manufacturing. the company also supported investments  in children’s health with support for st. jude’s and  lebonheurs children’s hospitals, and provided monetary,  in-kind and volunteer support for feed the needy’s easter  and thanksgiving food outreach programs. the memphis  team also supported memphis music initiative’s creative  youth development programs by participating in career  exploration activities with local youth in collaboration with  our kit kat® and hershey’s brand teams as part of the black  music month campaign.  → learn more in celebrating black music month with  the memphis music initiative on page  .  investing in brighter futures in robinson, illinois  hershey’s robinson plant employees joined a community- wide	effort	to	improve	affordable	child	care	availability 	 in crawford county, illinois, committing seed funding to  construct	a	nonprofit	child	care	center,	a	hub	for 	early	 childhood education resources, and other support services  for families with young children. hershey also continued  support for the construction of the county’s long-awaited  recreation center and educational initiatives with united  way to support high school students. our headquarters region in addition to supporting a range of local organizations,  hershey proudly committed leadership support to capital  campaign projects across central pennsylvania. to address  the rising needs of veterans experiencing homelessness  and other challenges, hershey provided a lead gift to  veterans outreach of pa, which is working to build a  tiny house community supporting homeless veterans.  combined	 with	our	veterans	brg’s	fundraising	efforts,	 hershey	provided	this	group	 with	$ , 	in	funding. in	 ,	hershey 	also	committed	$ , 	to	the	cocoa	 packs capital campaign. learn more in cocoa packs on  page	 .	 this	year	also	marked	the	grand	opening	of	 several projects supported by hershey over the past few  years, including the dauphin county mccormick library  expansion project, the new derry township community  center and the penn state health children’s hospital  expansion. hershey’s support for  the u.s. military dates  back to world war i  when hershey provided  milk chocolate bars  to american soldiers.  today, we are proud to  have veterans from the  u.s. military and other  countries throughout  hershey – from  executive leadership to  the manufacturing line  floor and every function  in between.”  steve voskuil, chief financial officer,  the hershey company   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report working together for stronger communities  continued continuing our support for social justice in the u.s. hershey maintained steadfast support for a range of  organizations working toward social justice, equity and  inclusion across our communities. we deepened our  support for ywca lancaster’s center for racial and  gender	equity	and	its efforts	to	support	 women	in	need	 across central pennsylvania. we also continued our  long-time partnerships with the national association for  the advancement of colored people’s (naacp) afro- academic,	cultural,	 technological	and	scientific	olympics	 in greater harrisburg, pennsylvania, with members  of our african american brg lending their time and  expertise to the student competitors. we also continued  our collaboration with the thurgood marshall college  foundation (tmcf).  → learn more about our work with tmcf in investing  in food science students on page  .  hershey	also	continued	support	for 	the	nonprofit	 embracerace, which helps parents, teachers and other  caregivers of children as they work to raise children who  are	brave,	thoughtful	and	informed	about	race.	in	 ,	 our support helped the organization with the development  of	its	first	set	of	caregiver 	action	guides,	 which	provide	 helpful	hints and	ideas	for 	issues	relating	to	race	and	racial	 justice for families. in addition to our monetary support,  our employees volunteered their time to help beta-test the  guides with their own children and provide feedback on  their experience.transferring a  treasured landmark in	 ,	hershey 	donated	the	historic	hershey 	theatre	to	 the m.s. hershey foundation. originally built during milton  s.	hershey’s	great	building	campaign	in	the	 s,	the	 theatre has been an architectural and cultural jewel for the  small	town	of	hershey 	since	its	doors	opened	in	 .	 today,	 it is a prominent venue for touring broadway shows, world- class musicians, and comedians, and is regarded as one of  pennsylvania’s	finest	performing	arts	 venues.	by 	donating	 the property to the m.s. hershey foundation, which exists  to preserve the cultural legacy of mr. hershey and provide  educational and cultural opportunities for the community,  the hershey company is ensuring the landmark remains a  unique cultural resource to the community and region for  generations to come. case study   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report working together for stronger communities  continued   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report creating a world of good our international teams share goodness  through philanthropy, volunteerism and  product donations. caring around the world canada hershey canada employees volunteered and made  monetary donations to food banks canada, donated  gently used clothes and school supplies, cleaned up local  parks and donated to their local ronald mcdonald house.  the team also continued to support bgc canada and its  efforts	to	support	child	 well-being.	 → learn more in belonging, not bullying on page  . mexico our monterrey, mexico, plant supported the naandi  children’s home, which serves young children and  teenage girls by developing a baking program to generate  revenue for the organization via cookie sales. the team  trained	the	 young	chefs	on	topics	including	finance,	 packaging,	quality,	safety 	and	first	aid,	and	made	a	 monetary and product donation of chocolate chips and  other	ingredients	to	jump-start	the	entrepreneurial	efforts.	 the	team	outfitted	the	organization’s	pastry 	workshop	 with new stainless steel equipment and pastry utensils for  baking. the team continued its support of naandi during  the holidays, providing gifts and additional donations of  cash and products to support the organization.  the philippines employees with hershey’s global business services team  in manila collected and donated food, personal hygiene  items and monetary donations to the san lorenzo home  for the elderly including a sweet treat — hershey’s kisses  milk chocolate with almonds.korea hershey	korea	kicked	off	a	partnership	 with	lifeline	korea,	 a	nonprofit	focused	on	suicide	prevention	and	awareness	 and	offers	help	to	families	impacted	by 	loss.	the	team	made	 a monetary donation and participated in the organization’s  out of the darkness run. hershey korea also supported  anna’s house, an ngo that helps teens facing poverty and  homelessness with food and mental healthcare in seoul.  malaysia hershey malaysia continued its longtime partnership with  sk	taman	daya,	a	primary 	school	for 	children	ages	 - 	to	 set up a hershey garden in celebration of earth day and  its ongoing sustainability education initiatives. the team  also celebrated world children’s day with the school  by leading environmental sustainability activities and  providing product donations for the children. the team also  sponsored a vaccination event that supplied pneumococcal  vaccines to citizens in rural and remote areas, providing  hershey products for this community health initiative.    the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report tackling hunger head on we help more children around the world go to  school in the morning and to bed at night with  more goodness inside.  in	the	u.s.,	households	 with	children	are	more	than	 . 	 times more likely to face hunger than households without  children.  in	communities	across	our 	raw	ingredient	supply 	 chain, that number is far higher.  combating hunger  and food scarcity is one way we address our material  issue of supporting the well-being of the people in our  communities. wherever hershey has a presence, whether  in	central	pennsylvania	or 	côte	d'ivoire,	 africa,	we	strive	to	 bring more moments of goodness where it is needed most.  cocoa packs cocoa packs is a hunger and community outreach  organization	that	serves	more	than	 , 	children	in	 	 school districts surrounding our corporate headquarters.  each week, students and families in need across central  pennsylvania receive bags of nutritious food to help combat  food insecurity. to expand the reach of this program and  support its exponential growth in recent years, cocoa packs  announced a capital campaign to raise $  million to build  and	operate	a	new 	 , 	square	foot	food	distribution	 and community center in hummelstown, pennsylvania.  the site will serve as the main cocoa packs facility and will  include a teaching kitchen and community garden. once  completed	in	 ,	the	facility 	will	increase	cocoa	packs’	 capacity 	to	serve	children	in	five	surrounding	counties,	as	 well as provide vital resources to improve the overall health  and well-being of youth. to augment community donations,  hershey	has	pledged	$ , 	over 	two	years.	we	have	 supported	cocoa	packs	since	it	 was	founded	in	 ,	and	 dozens of hershey employees regularly volunteer with  the organization.	feeding america hershey proudly continued its partnership with feeding  america by focusing on the intersection of children and  hunger, which aligns to our commitment to support  children in need and our desire to strengthen communities  where we operate. hershey’s support enabled feeding  america’s	ongoing	national	efforts	focused	on	child	hunger 	 by sponsoring a grant program for member food banks in  five	of	our 	u.s.	manufacturing	communities	across	four 	 states.	in	 ,	these	grants	served	more	than  , 	 children	in	more	than	 , 	families.	our 	support	 provided	more	than	 , 	meals	and	focused	on	meeting	 the needs of children and families where they were,  underwriting	programs	specifically 	designed	for 	at	home,	 after school, over weekends and vacations, and over the  summer through school pantry, summer meals, backpack  and kids café programs. partners in food solutions  each year, talented team members share their skills with  promising entrepreneurial food companies across sub- saharan africa. our people connect with small business  owners through partners in food solutions (pfs), a  nonprofit	 working	to	improve	food	security,	nutrition	and	 economic development in africa. since our partnership  began	in	 ,	hershey 	team	members	have	contributed	 nearly	 , 	hours	and	supported	 	different	clients,	  %	of	which	are	owned	or 	managed	by 	women.	by 	 sharing their 	knowledge,	our 	people	help	empower 	 entrepreneurs, improve	nutrition	and	strengthen	food	 value chains in africa.more than  % of total giving supported  organizations fighting hunger  and providing basic nutrition to  children and their families  	 	annual	report,	feeding america.   household	food	security 	in	the	united	states	in	  | usda.   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report giving back goodness pairing our corporate giving with employee  volunteerism in the communities where we live  and work helps us deliver more goodness. from using their expertise to providing hands-on support  for	community 	nonprofits,	hershey 	employees	have	a	 tradition of giving back.  → for a summary of our community giving and volunteering data,  see page  . good to give back month every year, hershey encourages employees to come  together to give back to their communities as volunteers.  during	our 	 	good	to	give	back 	month,	approximately 	  	employees	 volunteered	more	than	 , 	hours.	 • in conjunction with the announcement of our capital  campaign	investment	to	support	cocoa	packs,	 	 volunteers	donated	 	hours	at	the	 wednesday 	food	 distributions	and	 warehouse/clothing	centers	in	 	 • children preparing to enter kindergarten received school  and health supplies collected and sorted by employees  from our corporate headquarters as part of the united  way	of	lebanon	county’s	annual	stuff	the	bus	campaign • via virtual volunteering, employees wrote  encouragement cards to hospitalized children at penn  state milton s. hershey children’s hospital and other  area children’s hospitals • employees joined webinars to learn about rise against  hunger and partners in food solutions and joined virtual  brainstorming	sessions	to	support	embracerace’s	efforts	 in supporting parents and caregiverschildren’s miracle network in the u.s., we continued our partnership  with children’s miracle network (cmn),  donating	to	support	efforts	at	the	national	 level and at our corporate headquarters  in hershey, pennsylvania. over the past   	years,	hershey 	employees	have	raised	 more	than	$ 	million	in	support	of	cmn,	 and hershey continued support of cmn’s  educational equity scholarship at the penn  state college of medicine to decrease  disparities in pediatric care and supported  cmn’s child life program endowment.environmental philanthropy  and volunteerism to promote environmental stewardship in our farms,  public lands and communities, hershey provides funding  and maintains strategic partnerships with national,  regional and local groups including the arbor day  foundation, chesapeake bay foundation, the alliance  for the chesapeake bay, and other local environmental  conservancies and agricultural centers. many of our joint  initiatives focus on reforestation, restoring ecosystems and  biodiversity, and cultivating healthy soil and protection of  waterways. in nature, everything is connected, so these  efforts	often	provide	multiple	overlapping	benefits.	 they	 also	support	our 	priority	esg	goals.	during	our 	 	 good to give back month, hershey featured volunteer  opportunities with a range of our environmental partners,  supporting trail maintenance, community gardens, tree  plantings, and cleanup and restoration activities.  every year, members of our green teams join with other  employees, family and community members in projects  such as tree planting and cleanups to improve water quality,  cleaner air and create more natural spaces. for example, the  hershey malaysia team helped to build a hershey garden  at	a	local	school	and	planted	 	herbal	trees.	 they	also	 educated students about a sustainable lifestyle, distributed   	lunch	packs	and	donated	 	hershey's	stainless	steel	 drinking bottles along with hershey’s kisses chocolates.  elsewhere, volunteers from across the company cleaned  up litter in harrisburg, pennsylvania, performed trail  maintenance at the penn state milton s. hershey medical  center, and helped care for the hershey gardens and  hershey community garden.  → learn more about our green teams on page  .  , +   employee volunteers in     ,    employee volunteer hours in  case study goals kpis   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report community giving and volunteering unit       notes cash donations usd (in millions) $ .  $ .  $ .  — in-kind/product donations usd (in millions) $ .  $ .  $ .    annual net sales directed to community philanthropic endeavors %  . %  . % not available — employee volunteer hours # of hours  ,   ,   ,  — total employee volunteers during good to give back month # of employees    ,  not available — total organizations supported globally during good to give back month # of organizations     not available — total volunteer hours during good to give back month # of hours  ,   ,  not available —  	in	june	 ,	the	company 	entered	into	a	donation	 agreement	 with	hershey 	trust	company,	as	trustee	for 	the	m.s.	hershey 	foundation,	pursuant	to	 which	the	company 	donated	the	historical	hershey 	theatre	located	in	derry 	township,	 pennsylvania.our progress community target y earprogress (as of dec.  ,   ) goal status notes $  million donated in cash and products to community partners focused on  education, community economic development, inclusive communities and health and  human services where we live and work  $ .  million on track    	hershey	donated	nearly 	$ . 	million	in	cash	and	products	cumulatively 	from	january	 ,	 	to	december 	 ,	 . appendices   contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report about this report hershey’s	 	esg	report	covers	our 	most	material	 esg topics and the issues where we can have the  greatest impact. this	esg	report	covers	the	 	calendar 	year,	which	is	 also	our	fiscal	year,	unless	otherwise	stated. all	financial	figures	are	reported	in	u.s.	dollars,	unless	 otherwise stated. where noted, select environmental data within this esg  report	has	been	 verified	by 	quantis,	an	independent	 verifier.	additional	environmental	data	has	received	limited	 assurance by ey. statements from both quantis and ey  may be found on the following pages.  disclosure transparency is essential to living our values and  operating responsibly, which is why we seek to provide the  greatest disclosure possible in our reports. to support our  commitment, we align to the following esg frameworks  and standards: • global reporting initiative (gri) in accordance with gri  universal standards  • sustainability accounting standards board (sasb)  • task force on climate-related financial disclosures  (tcfd) • united nations global compact (ungc) • un guiding principles reporting framework (ungprf) • un sustainable development goals (sdgs) additional esg-related policies and resources can  be found on our sustainability reports, policies and  resources webpage. we welcome any feedback you may have on our esg  disclosures.  please direct inquires to sustainability@hersheys.com .forward-looking statements hershey’s	 	esg	report	contains	certain	forward-	 looking statements within the meaning of the private  securities	litigation	reform	 act	of	 . many of these forward-looking statements can be  identified	by 	the	use	of	 words	such	as	“anticipate,”	 “assume,” “believe,” “continue,” “estimate,” “expect,”  “forecast,” “future,” “intend,” “plan,” “potential,” “predict,”  “project,” “strategy,” “target” and similar terms, and future  or conditional tense verbs like “could,” “may,” “might,”  “should,” “will” and “would,” among others. these forward-looking statements reflect our current  assumptions and expectations, including statements  regarding our environmental, social and governance  targets, goals, commitments and programs and other  business plans, initiatives and objectives. we are subject  to changing economic, competitive, regulatory and  technological risks and uncertainties that could have a  material impact on our actual future results. for information on factors that could cause our actual  results	to	differ 	materially 	from	the	forward-looking	 statements,	please	see	 the	hershey 	company’s	filings	 with	 the securities and exchange commission, including our  most	recent	annual	report	on	form	 -k 	and	subsequent	 reports	on	forms	 -q	and	 -k.	 the	hershey 	company 	 undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise  any forward-looking statements to reflect actual results,  changes in expectations or events or circumstances after  the date of this esg report.   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report our company the hershey company is headquartered in hershey, pa.,  and is an industry-leading snacks company known for  bringing goodness to the world through our iconic brands,  remarkable people and enduring commitment to help  children	succeed.	hershey 	has	approximately 	 , 	 employees around the world who work every day to deliver  delicious, quality products. our company has more than   	brand	names	in	approximately 	 	countries	around	the	 world	that	drive	more	than	$ 	billion	in	annual	revenues,	 including the iconic hershey’s, reese’s, kit kat®, jolly  rancher and ice breakers brand names, and fast-growing  salty snacks including skinnypop, pirate's booty and  dot's homestyle pretzels brands. for	more	than	 	 years,	hershey 	has	been	committed	to	 operating fairly, ethically and sustainably. hershey founder,  milton	hershey,	created	milton	hershey 	school	in	 	and	 since then the company has focused on helping children  succeed. → to learn more visit, www.thehersheycompany.com        a member firm of ernst & young global limited  ernst & young llp   one commerce square   suite       market street   philadelphia, pa     tel: +          fax: +          ey.com     independent accountants ’ review report   to the management of  the hershey company   we have reviewed the hershey company ’s (“hershey”) s chedule of select sustainability indicators  (the  “subject matter”) included in appendix a for the year ended december  ,   in accordance with the criteria   also set forth in appendix a  (the “criteria”). hershey’s management  is responsible for the subject matter in  accordance with the criteria. ou r responsibility is to express a conclusion on the subject matter based on our  review.   our review was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the american institute of  certified public accountants (aicpa)  at-c section  , concept s common to all attestation engagements ,  and at-c section   , review engagements . those standards require that we plan and perform our re view to  obtain limited assurance about whether any material modifications should be made to the subject matter in order  for it to be in accordance with the criteria.  the procedures performed in a  review vary in nature and timing from  and are substantially less in extent than, an examination, the objective of which is to obtain reasonable assurance  about whether  the subject matter  is in accordance with the criteria, in all material respects, in order to express  an opinion. accordingly, we do not express such  an opinion. because of the limited nature of the engagement,  the level of assurance obtained in a review is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been  obtained had an examination been performed. as such, a review does not provide assuranc e that we became  aware of all significant matters that would be disclosed in an examination.  we believe that the review evidence  obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide  a reasonable basis for our conclusion.   we are required to be independent of h ershey and to meet our other ethical responsibilities, in accordance with  the relevant ethical requirements related to our review engagement.  additionally, we have complied with the  other ethical requirements set forth in the code of professional conduct  and applied the statements on quality  control standards established by the aicpa.   the procedures we performed were based on our pr ofessional judgment . our review consisted principally of  applying analytical procedures, making inquiries of persons responsible for the subject matter, obtaining an  understanding of the data management systems and processes used to generate, aggregate and  report the subject  matter and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.   as described in appendix a , the subject matter is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from  limitations inherent in the nature and th e methods used for determining such data. the selection of different but  acceptable measurement techniques can result in materially different measurements. the precision of different  measurement techniques may also vary.   the information included in hershey ’s esg report, other than the subject matter, has not been subjected to the  procedures applied in our review and, accordingly, we express no conclusion on it .  based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the schedule  of  select sustainability indicators  for the year ended december  ,   in order for it to be in accordance with the  criteria.       april  ,           appendix a – the hershey  company schedules of selected sustainability indicators     schedule of   select environmental metrics   for the year ended december  ,      indicator name  reported  value  units of  measure  criteria  reporting boundary   energy consumption within the organization  hershey selected an  organizational boundary  based on the company’s  operational control.   total direct energy  consumption   , ,    gigajoules  (gj) hershey  calculates total energy  consumption as the total energy from all  sources including energy purchased from  sources external to the entity and energy  produced by the entity itself (self - generated). this includes direct fuel usage,  purchased electricity, purc hased heating,  purchased cooling and purchased steam.   percent of total  electricity  consumption that is  supplied as grid  electricity   . %  percentage  (%) hershey calculates the percent of total  electricity consumption that is supplied as  grid electricity as the total purchased grid  electricity consumption divided by total  electricity consumption.   percent of total  electricity  consumption that is  identified  as renewable  electricity   . %  percentage  (%) hershey  calculates the total electricity  consumption that is identified as    renewable electricity as   the total renewable electricity purchased  divided by total electricity consumption.   percent of total  electricity  consumption that is  covered by the  purchase of a zero - emissions energy  based contractual  instrument   . %  percentage  (%) the company calculates the total electricity  consumption that is covered by the purchase  of a zero -emissions energy based  contractual instrument as the total energy  purchased through zero -emissions energy  based contractual instruments divided by  total electricity consumption.          for facilities that do not receive invoices or meter readings necessary to obtain actual energy consumption, hershey utilizes  an  estimation methodology that considers historical and known data. this methodology is utilized for smaller offices and is not  considered material to hershey’s reported energy and electricity consumption.     the reporting boundary of the subject matter within the schedule includes all global facilities and offices under the operati onal control  of hershey . the reporting boundary incl udes all dot ’s pretzels  and pretzel s, inc.  facilities acquired during  .     total direct energy consumption includes natural gas, coal, gasoline, jet fuel, oil # , coal, propane, and biogenic sources and aligns  with the sources and energy consumption inc luded in the calculation of scope   ghg emissions.     grid electricity is defined as electricity provided and consumed by the company through connection with a third -party utility provider.  this excludes third -party auxiliary power providers, such as direct  line transmission from renewable sources of energy.     renewable electricity consists of both contractual instruments and electricity from renewable sources of energy provided thro ugh direct  line transmission. the contractual instruments align with the wr i/wbcsd ghg protocol scope   guidance quality criteria and are  derived from renewable energy. renewable energy is defined by the company as sources that are replenished at a rate greater t han or  equal to their rate of depletion (i.e., geothermal, wind, sol ar, and hydro). in certain instances, the retirement of these contractual  instruments may occur subsequent to the date of this report. when this is the case, the contractual instrument has a set date  for  retirement  or is contractually obligated to be retir ed. direct line renewable electricity is purchased by the company directly as  renewable electricity maintaining the related emissions attributes. the renewable energy based contractual instruments and th e direct  line renewable electricity used in this indicator are included in the scope   mbm ghg emissions calculation.     zero-emissions energy based contractual instruments are defined as contractual instruments that align with the wri/wbcsd ghg  protocol scope   guidance quality criteria but fail to meet the definition of renewable energy. most commonly this energy is  contractual instruments linked to nuclear energy. the zero -emissions energy based contractual instruments used in this indicator are  included in the scope   mbm ghg emissions calculation.     the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report       schedule of   select environmental metrics   for the year ended december  ,      indicator name  reported value  units of measure  criteria  reporting  boundary   scope   (direct)  greenhouse gas (ghg)  emissions , ,    ,    metric tonnes carbon  dioxide equivalents   (mt co  e) world resources institute (“wri”)  / world business council for  sustainable development’s  (“wbcsd”) the greenhouse gas  protocol: a corporate accounting  and reporting standard (ghg  protocol) and wri wbcsd g hg  protocol scope   guidance: an  amendment to the ghg protocol  corporate standard  hershey selected an  organizational  boundary based on  the company’s  operational control .    scope   (indirect) ghg  emissions, market - based method , ,   ,   mt co  e the ghg protocol and wri  wbcsd ghg protocol scope    guidance: an amendment to the  ghg protocol corporate standard  scope   (indirect) ghg  emissions, location - based method ,   ,   mt co  e                   for facilities that do not receive invoices or meter readings necessary to obtain actual energy consumption, hershey utilizes an  estimation methodology that considers historical and known data. this methodology is utilized for smaller offices and is not  considered material to hershey’s reported ghg emissions.     scope   ghg emissions includes natural gas, refrigerants, coal,  gasoline, jet fuel,  oil # ,  coal,  propane, and  biogenic emissions for ch    and n  o.    gases included in the reporting boundary are co  , ch   and n  o. additional greenhouse gases include hfcs and pfcs used in  refrigerants. the majority of the reported co  e emissions are from co   with the remainder being composed of ch   and n  o, hfcs,  pfcs, sf   and nf  .     hershey calculates their scope   ghg  emissions inclusive of company -owned passenger vehicles. in certain regions,  the exact fuel  consumed as part of hershey’s operational boundary holds a degree of uncertainty. as a result, hershey leverages estimation b ased  upon known historical data in ord er to maintain a representative footprint of their scope   ghg emissions.     the reporting boundary of the subject matter includes all global facilities and offices under the operational  control of hershey. the  reporting boundary  include s all dot ’s pretzels  and pretzel s, inc.  facilities acquired during   .    hershey  applies the ghg protocol scope   guidance for  both the market -based  and the location -based  emissions by multiplying  purchased electricity by the emissions factors indicated in the tabl e in the notes section titled “ sources of emissions factors and global  warming potentials .”    ghg emissions – scope   indirect emissions includes the following gases: co , ch  and n o in the reporting boundary. the vast  majority of the reported co e emissions are from co  with the remainder being composed of ch  and n o, noting that hfcs,  pfcs, sf  and nf  are not material to the company's emissions.     for some hershey owned facilities, renewable energy attributes and zero -emissions attributes are purchased as contractual instruments.  these attributes are registered and retired in an energy  market’s attribute tracking system. in certain instances, the retirement of these  contractual instruments may occur subsequent to the date of this report. when this is the case, the contractual instrument ha s a set date  for retirement  or is contractually obligated to be retire d. the company adjusts its scope   mbm emissions as recommended by the  ghg protocol scope   guidance by treating the underlying power associated with the attributes as null power in the calculatio n of  scope   mbm emissions.        note on non -financial reporting:     non-financial information is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and  the methods used for determining such data. the selection of different but acceptable measurement tec hniques can result  in materially different measurements. the precision of different measurements techniques may also vary.        the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report       note on sources of emissions factors and global warming potentials:     indicator name  emissions factors  global warming  potentials   ghg emissions –  scope      uk d epartment for environment, food and rural affairs (d efra )  greenhouse gas reporting: conversion factors as of september  ,      ipcc fourth  assessment report   ghg emissions –  scope   (market - based)    international energy agency (iea) data services     edison electric institute (eei) electric company carbon emissions  and electricity mix reporting database for corporate customers     green -e energy residual mix emissions rates     data year re -diss  residual mix emissions rates for europe   mexico emission factor of the national electrical system     hydro -quebec c    emissions     malaysia sustainable energy development authority       central electricity authority of india: tool to calculate the emission  factor for an electricity system – version  .    other supplier specific emissions factors   ghg emissions –  scope   (location - based)    the emissions & generation resource integrated database (egrid)     factors, international ener gy agency (iea) data services              the emis sion factors applied to electricity consumption in the u.s. is the green -e residual mix emission factor, which is an adjusted  grid-average emission factor that accounts for all unique green -e energy certified sales. a complete adjusted emission factor (i.e .,  residual mix that accounts for all voluntary renewable energy claimed) is not available for the u.s. at this time.        note on sources of conversion factors:     indicator name  conversion factors   total energy  consumption  u.s. energy information administration (eia)  unit energy conversion calculator   u.s. environmental protection agency (epa)  natural gas conversions   british oil and gas company (bp)  – statistical review of world energy – approximate conversion factors            the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report     quantis usa  /   long wharf,   -west,  boston, ma   / t +         / www.quantis.com     ggrreeeennhhoouussee  ggaass,,  wwaatteerr,,  aanndd  wwaassttee  vveerriiffiiccaattiioonn  ssttaatteemmeenntt     prepared for : the hershey company  prepared by : quantis us    april  ,        ggrreeeennhhoouussee  ggaass  eemmiissssiioonnss   the inventory of greenhouse gas emissions from selected scope   categories for the hershey company  has been verified for the reporting year   by quantis according to iso  -  as detailed below :    year  scope category  ghg emissions   (mt co e)     scope   category   – purchased goods and services   , ,    category   – fuel and energy related activities   ,   category   – upstream transportation  ,   category   – waste generated in operations   ,   category   – business travel   ,   category   – employee commuting   ,   category   – downstream transportation and distribution   ,   category   – end of life of sold products   ,       total scope   footprint   , ,         wwaatteerr  kkppiiss   the inventory of water withdrawal, water discharge, and water consumption has been verified for the  reporting year     by quantis, as detailed below:    year  kpi quantity  unit      total water withdrawal   ,  million liters   total water discharge  ,  million liters   total water consumption    million liters                      quantis usa  /   long wharf,   -west,  boston, ma   / t +         / www.quantis.com     wwaassttee  kkppiiss   the inventory of waste categories disposed and enterprise -wide waste intensity in operations has been  verified for the reporting year of     by quantis, as detailed below:    year  kpi quantity  unit     non- hazardous waste generated   ,  metric tons   waste recycled   ,  metric tons   recycled  ,  metric tons   stock feed  ,  metric tons   composted    metric tons   waste to energy (incineration)  ,  metric tons   waste to trash (landfill)   ,  metric tons   hazardous waste    metric tons   waste intensity   .  mt waste  generated /  mt product  produced                                                   quantis usa  /   long wharf,   -west,  boston, ma    / t +         / www.quantis.com    authorized by                   mariya absar, phd  senior sustainability consultant , quantis us  verification statement date: april  ,      qquuaannttiiss  uussaa       long wharf,  -west, boston, ma     tel: +   - -   email: info.usa@quantis-intl.com       the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report     quantis usa  /   long wharf,   -west,  boston, ma   / t +         / www.quantis.com     bbrriieeff  ddeessccrriippttiioonn  ooff  tthhee  vveerriiffiiccaattiioonn  pprroocceessss   quantis has been commissioned by the hershey company for verification of the hershey company  greenhouse gas emissions, from selected scope   categories  for the   reporting year, against the  ghg protocol . quantis also reviewed relevant water, and waste kpis for the   reporting year. the  verification was based on the verification scope, objectives , and criteria as agreed between the hershey  company and quantis.  rroolleess  aanndd  rreessppoonnssiibbiilliittiieess   the management of the hershey company is responsible for supplying relevant activity data and  emission factors, as well as the calculations of ghg emissions information and the reported ghg  emissions.  it is quantis’ responsibility to express an independent verification opinion on the ghg emissions as  provided by the hershey company for the period  st january   to  st december  .   oobbjjeeccttiivveess  aanndd  ccrriitteerriiaa   the purposes of this verification exercise are, by review of objective ev idence, to independently review :  • whether the ghg emissions are as declared by the hershey company.  • whether water and waste kpis are as declared by the hershey company.   • whether the data reported are accurate, complete, consistent, transparent, relevant and free of  material error or omission and compiled in accordance with the hershey company’ described  methodology.  lleevveell  ooff  aassssuurraannccee   quantis undertook the verification assessment with the aim to provide a limited level of assurance for  selected scope   categories listed below , as well as water and waste inventory kpis for the hershey  company operations.          quantis usa  /   long wharf,   -west,  boston, ma   / t +         / www.quantis.com     ssccooppee   emission sources verified were from co  -e arising from  the hershey company’s scope    emissions from  reporting year  . the following scope   categories were included:     category  in/out of scope   purchased goods & services  in scope   fuel & energy related activities  in scope   upstream transportation & distribution  in scope   waste generated in operations  in scope   business travel  in scope   employee commuting in scope   downstream transportation & distribution in scope   end of life treatment of products  in scope   capital goods  out of scope   upstream leased assets  out of scope   processing of sold products  out of scope   use of sold products  out of scope   downstream leased assets  out of scope   franchises out of scope   investments out of scope   note: scope   categories that are “out of scope” are excluded from hershey’s ghg inventory because they’re not materially app licable to the footprint      ccoonncclluussiioonn     based on the data and information provided to quantis and the processes and procedures conducted  by quantis, it is concluded that the ghg emissions calculations are sound. there is no evidence to  suggest that the ghg emissions for the reported scope   categories, as well as selected water and waste  kpis are not materially correct and are not a fair representation of provided data and information based  on the calculation methodologies utilized.        the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report material issue definitions issue definition advocacy and lobbying the	extent	to	 which	the	company 	is	involved	in	supporting,	 whether	financial	or 	otherwise,	any 	political	candidate	or 	issue	in	jurisdictions	that	it	operates.	 sub-issues: political expenditures, lobbying, brand activism animal welfare ensuring the production of livestock in the supply chain upholds standards for the ethical and humane treatment of animals, including their mental and physical well-being, and prioritizing  suppliers producing cruelty-free products. sub-issues:	cage-free	housing,	judicious	use	of	antibiotics/growth	hormone,	feeding	practices,	unnecessary 	suffering biodiversity engaging in the protection of ecosystems, including the protection of wildlife (e.g., plants, animals, and other species) and their habitats.  sub-issues: ecosystem protection, sustainable agriculture, wildlife protection and conservation, chemical management board and executive oversight oversight	to	ensure	highest	standards	for 	accountability 	and	trust	are	upheld	in	the	business,	supporting	an	environment	 with	integrity,	financial	stability,	and	responsible	and	long-term	 growth. sub-issues: board diversity, independent board members, executive compensation business operations and supply chain resilience the active management of supply chain activities to minimize disruptions of any form and maximize company and customer value. sub-issues: natural disaster preparedness, climate change, pandemic, risk assessment, geo-politics, tax child labor prohibiting work that deprives children of their childhood, their potential and their dignity, and is harmful to physical and mental development. sub-issues: education access, poverty, nutritional access data protection and cyber security protecting and securing employee and customer data to avoid reputational and personal damage. including appropriate measures to reduce data risks and increase the trust of all  stakeholders. ensuring the correct platforms are in place to ensure cyber security.  sub-issues: privacy, responsible use of technology, ethical use of data, data privacy deforestation use	and	management	of	forest resources	to	meet	business	and	customer 	needs,	as	 well	as	measures	of	any 	relevant	contamination,	deterioration	or 	destruction.  sub-issues: sustainable forestry and harvesting, land titles, law enforcement, agroforestry diversity, equity and inclusion (dei) embracing all forms of diversity in the workplace, creating an inclusive and equitable workplace culture where everyone feels safe, respected and valued. convey a commitment to inclusion,  diversity and equality beyond the workplace to hershey’s vendors, customers and communities with a focus on underrepresented groups. sub-issues: racial and social justice, discrimination, psychological safety, supplier diversity, equal access and opportunity for underrepresented groups, women’s empowerment along the  supply chain employee attraction, retention and development hiring, managing, developing and retaining the right people with the right skills in an increasingly competitive market. ensuring hershey's pay structure is competitive and aligns with industry  standards. sub-issues:	learning	and	development,	talent	acquisition,	compensation	and	benefits,	pension	management energy management optimizing operational practices and power sources to conserve energy and reduce overall energy consumption. sub-issues:	renewable	energy,	energy 	efficiency,	led	lighting ethics and compliance maintaining the highest levels of ethical standards in the conduct of our operations and acting in full compliance with the laws and regulations of the countries in which hershey operates and  serves, maintaining compliance with best practices and international standards, where applicable. sub-issues: anti-competitive behavior, anti-corruption, compliance with relevant standards, ethical behavior, regulatory compliance farmer livelihoods the opportunity for growers to influence decision-making processes and to undertake transformative actions that can help them to improve their livelihoods. sub-issues: employment opportunity, fair wages, living wageenvironment governance social   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report issue definition food safety and quality upholding the highest product quality and assessing and ensuring the health and safety of all products. practices used to grow, harvest, process and deliver safe, healthy and quality food and  prevent any contamination or food-borne illnesses. sub-issues:	product	safety,	quality 	inspection	and	certification ghg emissions and climate change taking action to reduce hershey’s carbon footprint and reduce climate-related risks. sub-issues: emissions reduction, low-carbon logistics, business travel, facility footprint, decarbonization, resilient supply chains human rights (supply chain) throughout the supply chain, upholding and respecting the fundamental human rights of all external stakeholders by ensuring basic conditions for all individuals to live with dignity and free  from human rights abuses, including child and forced labor. sub-issues:	fundamental	human	rights,	forced	labor,	human	trafficking,	living	 wage	and	income labor relations upholding commonly accepted core labor rights principles across the hershey workforce and supporting freedom to association and collective bargaining as well as respecting the right to be  free of harassment and intimidation in the workplace.  sub-issues: labor rights, collective bargaining, grievance mechanisms, freedom of association nutrition and health the	company's	involvement	in	making	healthy 	products	 widely	available	and	affordable. sub-issues: consumer well-being, children’s nutrition, transparency packaging and end-of-life minimizing the use of packaging and single-use plastics, including reducing unnecessary packaging, and implementing reuse and recycled materials for customer and consumer-facing  packaging. additionally, ensuring packaging is easily recyclable for customers and consumers.  sub-issues: plastic reduction, circular systems, recycled and reusable sources, customer waste and post-consumer recycling responsible marketing and labelling promoting practices which maintain fair marketing and responsible selling, as well as providing customers with transparent access to information about the origin and composition of products,  including environmental (i.e., environmental footprint) and social (i.e., human rights and fair wages) impacts, to help customers make informed choices.  sub-issues: fair and responsible selling, customer labelling, responsible marketing, ingredients and product transparency responsible sourcing the company's ability to maintain a secure, sustainable, and fair supply chain for its assets and services. sub-issues: ethical sourcing, sustainable sourcing, safety, transparency soil health efforts	to	protect	and	ensure	the	capacity 	of	soil	to	function	as	a	 vital	living	ecosystem	that	sustains	plants,	animals,	and	humans.	 sub-issues:	regenerative	agriculture,	chemical	management	and	pesticide/fertilizer 	use,	desertification supporting communities supporting, developing, and enhancing the well-being and livelihoods of communities where hershey is present through charitable giving and employee volunteering.  sub-issues: philanthropy, employee volunteering, community relations, disaster response, hunger and food scarcity traceability the ability of the company to follow the movement of a food product and its ingredients through all steps in the supply chain. sub-issues: blockchain, supply chain transparency, risk management waste management responsible management and disposal of hazardous/non-hazardous waste in production and operations and where possible, reducing, recycling or reusing within the supply chain.  sub-issues: hazardous/non-hazardous waste disposal, facility and corporate recycling programs, customer and supplier engagement, food waste water use responsibly using, managing and conserving water resources while meeting business needs. sub-issues:	 water	efficiency,	 wastewater 	management,	 water	quality	and	effluent workplace health and safety ensuring	the	physical	and	mental	health	and	safety 	of	hershey’s	employees	at	offices,	stores	and	distribution	centers	by 	providing	a	safe	place	to	 work	with	sufficient	protocols	and	training	 programs in place.  sub-issues: workplace protection, mental well-being, flexible working, company culture, health and safety policies and training, employee incidents at workmaterial issue definitions   continuedenvironment governance social   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report salient human rights issues definitions   the hershey company   esg report contents —making good —our company —cocoa —responsible sourcing and human rights —environment —our people —youth —community —about this report these	are	the	definitions	used	in	the	 	refresh	of	our 	salient	human	rights	issues. issue definition child labor as defined by the international labour organization (ilo), child labor is work that deprives children of their childhood, their potential, and their dignity, and is harmful to their physical and mental  development. forced labor as defined by the ilo, this includes work or service that is obtained from any person under the threat of penalty and for which the person has not offered himself or herself voluntarily. land rights and acquisition customary land rights, including the fulfillment of respecting rights for indigenous peoples, local communities and farmers to give free, prior and informed consent, for acquisition and development. living wage and income workers and farmers to receive a wage and/or income level that allows all members of the household to afford a decent standard of living.  health and safety a safe and healthy workplace in both our own business and in our supply chains in line with applicable safety and health laws and in consultation with rightsholders. access to water and sanitation sufficient, safe, acceptable, physically accessible and affordable water for personal and domestic use and to sanitation services that are safe and physically accessible, and ensure privacy and dignity. climate impacts and deforestation the impacts of climate change and commodity-driven deforestation on people and communities. gender and social inequality equal human rights for historically marginalized groups including women and the bipoc community, and those further marginalized based on intersecting identities.  	elements	of	a	decent	standard	of	living	include food,	 water,	housing,	education,	health	care,	transportation,	clothing,	and	other 	essential	needs	including	provision	for 	unexpected	events.   esg report  together  at the table engaging our stakeholders to meet our global sustainability goals forward-looking statements this report contains forward-looking statements as defined under u.s. federal securities  laws, including, but not limited to, statements, estimates, and projections relating to  our business and long-term strategy; our esg strategy; our ambitions, goals, targets,  and commitments; the sourcing of raw materials; our activities, efforts, initiatives, and  programs, and our investments in such activities, efforts, initiatives, and programs; and projected or expected timing, results, achievement, and impacts. forward-looking  statements generally can be identified by words such as “aim,” “anticipate,” “believe,”  “continue,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “project,” “should,” “strive,” “target,” “will,” and variations of such words and similar future or conditional  expressions. these statements are based on management’s beliefs, expectations, estimates, and projections at the time they are made and are not guarantees of future  performance. such statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many  of which are difficult to predict and beyond our control, which could cause actual results  to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. those factors  include, but are not limited to, decreased agricultural productivity; increased consumer  demand for food products or changes in consumer preferences; economic and political  conditions in the united states and other places where we do business or source raw  materials; climate change, legal or regulatory responses thereto, and our compliance  with such laws; our dependence on technology and the reliability of such technology,  including the pace of changes in technology and potential damage to or interruptions in  technology; costs of resources and raw materials; adverse weather conditions and natural  disasters; labor strikes; the ability to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel; and our  future financial and operating performance within and relative to our industry, as well as the other risks found in this report and the risk factors set forth in kraft heinz’s filings with the u.s. securities and exchange commission, including our most recently filed annual report on form  -k and subsequent reports on forms  -q and  -k. we disclaim and  do not undertake any obligation to update, revise, or withdraw any forward-looking  statement in this report, except as required by applicable law or regulation, and make no  representation, express or implied, that the information is still accurate or complete.    together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                   appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction table of contents about this report  .....................................................................................................................................................................    a letter from the ceo  ................................................................................................................................................................      about the kraft heinz company  ...............................................................................................................................................                       esg governance   .......................................................................................................................................................................              esg materiality and stakeholder engagement  ..............................................................................................................              ethics and compliance  ...................................................................................................................................................               esg strategy and goals  ..................................................................................................................................................     healthy living and community support  .................................................................................................................................              diversity, inclusion & belonging  .....................................................................................................................................              employee health & wellness  ..........................................................................................................................................              working to alleviate global hunger  ...............................................................................................................................              supporting communities in need  .................................................................................................................................              product health  ...............................................................................................................................................................               infant nutrition  ..............................................................................................................................................................              food safety & quality  ....................................................................................................................................................              responsible marketing  ...................................................................................................................................................              transparency & labeling  ................................................................................................................................................              healthy living recipes  ...................................................................................................................................................              a track record of safety  .................................................................................................................................................    environmental stewardship  ..................................................................................................................................................              sustainability goals in manufacturing ..........................................................................................................................              water use & conservation  .............................................................................................................................................              energy use & conservation  ...........................................................................................................................................              renewable electricity sourcing  ......................................................................................................................................                 net zero and science based targets  .............................................................................................................................                      waste reduction  ...........................................................................................................................................................              sustainable packaging  ..................................................................................................................................................              designing for recyclability  ............................................................................................................................................    responsible sourcing  .............................................................................................................................................................              supplier guiding principles  ............................................................................................................................................              human rights  ................................................................................................................................................................              sustainable sourcing  ......................................................................................................................................................             animal welfare  ..............................................................................................................................................................              sustainable agriculture  .................................................................................................................................................     esg metrics  ............................................................................................................................................................................    together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction about this report this   environmental social governance report (“report”) is the fourth environmental social governance (esg)  report issued by the kraft heinz company (“kraft heinz” or “the company”). this report reflects our commitment to  transparency and provides details for our stakeholders on progress to date against our esg goals and objectives, which  are based on our most significant esg issues. these issues were reviewed and updated based on our esg materiality  assessment.  this report does not include details on our financial performance. details on our financial performance can be found in our  public filings with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (“sec”) and on our investor relations website . materiality  as used in this report, sometimes referenced as “esg materiality,” and our esg materiality review process, are intended  to reflect priority esg issues and do not have the same meaning as materiality under u.s. securities laws, in our filings with the sec, or under similar laws in other jurisdictions. issues deemed material for purposes of this report and for purposes of  determining our esg strategies may not be considered material for other purposes, including our sec or other reporting. unless otherwise noted, this report covers initiatives and performance metrics associated with our global operations from  january   through december  ,  . kraft heinz anticipates issuing an esg report annually.  we have utilized the united nations sustainable development goals (sdgs) as a guiding framework in the development of  our esg initiatives. this report also serves as our communication on progress as a signatory to the united nations global  compact  and ceo water mandate .  kraft heinz supports the sdgs, which represent a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure  prosperity for all. as such, we considered the sdgs when developing kraft heinz’s global esg strategy and goals. the  global esg strategy of kraft heinz supports all   sdgs in varying degrees. we have identified the main places in this  report to demonstrate the key ways our initiatives work towards the targets aligned with the sdgs. this is represented by the appropriate icons preceding those correlating sections throughout the report.  this report was prepared utilizing the global reporting initiative (gri) sustainability standard. we have also aligned this  report to the general principles of the sustainability accounting standards board (sasb) for food and beverage companies,  as well as the task force on climate-related financial disclosure (tcfd). separate downloads of our ‘gri’, ‘sasb’, and  ‘tcfd’ disclosures are available on our website .  kraft heinz engaged with bureau veritas and sgs united kingdom ltd. to provide limited assurance in relation to specific    environmental data. details on our assurance activities are available in the appendix of this report and on our website .  we welcome feedback on our esg strategy and goals. to share questions or comments, please contact   esg@kraftheinz.com .    together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                   appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction a letter from the ceo anyone who knows me well knows how passionate i am about good food and cooking. for me, both are all about  relationships. preparing a meal and creating special moments with those i cook for are among my favorite things. that’s why, as the ceo and board chair for a global food company with a delicious heritage, the work i do is so  personal. i’m incredibly proud that our employees work each day to bring special moments to life for people  across the globe. we at kraft heinz help feed the world through products that line store shelves and make their  way to countless kitchens and restaurants. it all comes together at the table .  one of our company values is we do the right thing , and everything we do grows from there. but we can only  drive progress and achieve our environmental social governance goals by collaborating across our company and  with external stakeholders. in fact, our   esg report is a testament to the power of partnerships. there is a saying that i love: “if you want to go fast, go alone. if you want to go far, go together.” the concept of  partnership and teamwork is essential – especially when it comes to our esg efforts. within this report, we’re proud to share the progress we are making when it comes to achieving our strategic esg  priorities – thanks in large measure to the alliances we’ve built. it’s all about bringing these internal and external  groups together at the kraft heinz table. that means our customers and suppliers, nonprofit partners, and  importantly, our dedicated employees across the globe.  that is what together at the table is all about.  at kraft heinz, we take a cross-functional approach to esg, integrating socially responsible and sustainable  practices throughout our business and value chain as we work to deliver on our goals by the year  . for us,  esg is not a nice-to-do; it is important to how we operate as a company and to the success of our long-term  business strategy. our esg goals and priorities fall under three broad pillars: healthy living & community  support , environmental stewardship , and responsible sourcing . we believe in focusing on high-priority issues  in areas that matter most – and where we as a company can make the greatest impact.  when it comes to esg, we are on a long journey. while we celebrate the progress we are making toward our  goals and aspirations, we humbly acknowledge we have much work still to do. but despite these challenges, our  teams have remained agile. they are working together to make real progress across our key metrics. and they are  doing it all while prioritizing a more diverse and inclusive workplace. this annual report serves as our communication on progress as part of our commitments to the united nations  global compact and ceo water mandate . i encourage you to visit our esg website , where you’ll find more  about our esg progress and highlights of our achievements, goals, and aspirations.   i invite all of you to join us –to come together at the table  – as we continue this journey of transforming our  world for the better. there is room for all of us! miguel patricio   chief executive officer and chair of the board of directors   the kraft heinz company    together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction a global foods powerhouse formed in   through the merger of kraft foods group, inc. and h.j. heinz holding corporation, the kraft heinz company is  a globally trusted producer of high quality, great tasting and nutritious food and beverages. kraft heinz is co-headquartered  in chicago and pittsburgh. at the end of the   fiscal year, kraft heinz operated   manufacturing and processing facilities,  approximately  ,  ingredient and packaging suppliers, approximately   external manufacturers, and   approximately  ,  employees around the world.$ b         in net sales   ( )one of the largest food  and beverage companies  in the world +   countries with  dedicated kraft heinz  employees ( )  unparalleled portfolio   of iconic and new brands  in retail and foodservice  channels ~ m   meals donated to  combat food insecurity  globally with partners  ( ) together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  information on this page (excluding meal donation numbers) is reflective of the   fiscal year end. appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction our purpose, vision, & values  to sustainably   grow by delighting more  consumers globally. we are   consumer   obsessed.we dare   to do better  every day.we   champion  great   people.we   demand  diversity.we do   the right   thing.we   own it.our purpose    our purpose is our call to action, our reason to exist – reminding each of us why the  work we do each day matters.our vision    our vision is an internal declaration of what we aspire to do. it points the way to  where we want to go as a company, and what we plan to achieve in the years ahead.   it makes our ambition clear. our values   our values represent our beliefs and define our shared culture. they reflect what we stand for and who we want to be.   we walk in our purpose by living our values.   together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction ~ , * employees worldwide our vision and values invite every employee to play an active role in our company’s journey. we embrace diversity, inclusion, and belonging, and we strive to be the best  in everything we do, including corporate citizenship. we strive to make positive impacts in our communities and the environment, improving our collective world and being  transparent about our challenges and progress. global employees by gender   women  ......................................................................  % men ...........................................................................  % nonbinary  ............................................................... <  % not disclosed  .......................................................... <  %executive leadership team    african american or black  ........................................  %  hispanic or latino  ....................................................  % white  .......................................................................  %   women .  ...................................................................  %  men  .........................................................................  %employees by race/ethnicity   (white collar)**    people of color in the u.s.  .......................................  %  white in the u.s.  ......................................................  % not disclosed in the u.s.  ............................................  %  ethnic minorities in the u.k.   .....................................  % pretos e pardos (black & two or more races)   in brazil  ...................................................................  % global women in management roles    total ...................................................................  % global employees by type   full time  ...................................................................  % part time  .....................................................................  %  * note that kraft heinz has additional temporary, seasonal and student workers in addition to regular full-time employees.  ** includes salaried employees only.   data on this page is as of december  ,  . full details and footnotes to all metrics are available on pages  - .  together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction board of directors  comprised of diverse, experienced and qualified leaders with  strong credentials, our board of directors establishes corporate  policies, sets strategic direction and oversees management, which  is responsible for our day-to-day operations. guided by our  corporate governance guidelines, the board aims to foster the  company’s long-term success and provides strategic direction  to help us achieve meaningful results worldwide. the board of  directors helps establish and oversee our global esg objectives  and framework, including matters related to operations, our supply chain, animal welfare, climate change, the environment, nutrition and well-being, and social issues. the board of directors reviews all significant esg policies, processes and goals, and receives  regular updates from the esg team on progress against key  performance indicators and other relevant developments. executive leadership team  our executive leadership team provides oversight and  executional leadership for our global esg strategy. the executive  leadership team is led by chief executive officer, miguel patricio, and includes   other executives representing a variety  of disciplines, including finance, sales, operations, procurement,  marketing, research and development, human resources, legal/ ethics & compliance, communications, and corporate affairs. the team receives quarterly progress reports from the esg team. esg team and steering committee accountable to the board of directors and in partnership with  the executive leadership team, the esg team directs the design,  development, execution and continuous improvement of our esg strategy, goals and initiatives. the esg team engages with  key stakeholders regularly, including consumers, customers,  stockholders, employees, ngos and community leaders, and  leads the esg steering committee.  the esg steering committee is comprised of leaders in various  functions around the globe. team leaders are responsible for  mobilizing the organization and collaborating across departments  to lead the development, implementation, continuous  improvement and measurement of relevant esg policies,  procedures and programs. the esg steering committee has  subcommittees that meet regularly in the following areas: product  health; sustainable agriculture; responsible sourcing; sustainable manufacturing; sustainable packaging; animal welfare; corporate  & government affairs; and communications.  these practices are designed to ensure alignment with business  strategies and operational objectives. the ceo and key  leadership, along with various other team members, hold esg   key performance metrics linked to compensation associated   with all esg initiatives.  please visit http://ir.kraftheinzcompany.com  and/or our proxy  statement filed with the u.s. securities and exchange commission  on march  ,   to learn more about our company’s corporate governance structure and leadership. we are also proud to  disclose certain esg progress and achievements in our proxy  statements. kraft heinz has also increasingly integrated and  disclosed environmental related financial exposure that feeds  into various reporting frameworks, such as sustainalytics, the dow  jones sustainability index, and cdp (climate, water and forest  questionnaires).esg governance   the kraft heinz company is committed to responsible corporate governance. we have  designed our governance structure to enable us to live our vision and values.    together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction board of directors provides oversight oversees our global esg strategy and objectives, including our activities and opportunities, as well as related risks.  engages at least annually with management to review all significant policies, processes, and commitments, with additional updates and engagement as necessary. in july  , esg oversight responsibilities shifted from the operations and strategy committee, which was dissolved, to the full board. we believe the full board’s responsibility for consideration and  oversight of critical esg issues enhances our sustainability efforts, which are a critical component of our overall enterprise strategy. chief executive officer   provides executive support collaborates with members of the executive leadership team on oversight and executional leadership on strategies.  has an annual performance goal that tracks our esg performance. executive vice president, global general counsel, and chief sustainability and corporate affairs officer  oversees global esg strategy, reports to the chief executive officer, and collaborates with our esg team to establish and lead plan implementation. has an annual performance goal that tracks our esg performance. quarterly business reviews quarterly business review meetings with the executive leadership team. esg steering committee – steerco  provides cross-functional, upper-level management input on esg practices and policies. esg steering committee subcommittees provide high-touch engagement, track emergent issues, and drive collaboration, transparency, and continuous improvement toward initiatives.  holds monthly workgroups in the following areas: product health; sustainable agriculture; responsible sourcing; sustainable manufacturing;   sustainable packaging; animal welfare; corporate & government affairs; and communications.  esg team directs the design, development, execution, and continuous improvement of our global esg strategy, goals, and initiatives.  engages with key stakeholders and leads the esg steering committee.corporate responsibility and sustainability governance   together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                   appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction esg materiality* and stakeholder engagement   to inform and continuously improve upon our esg strategy, we engage a wide variety of stakeholders for input. participating in an ongoing, two-way dialogue  with our stakeholders strengthens our understanding of important environmental, social and governance issues, which helps us set associated priorities   to make respective impacts. our global stakeholder network includes both the internal and external people and parties whose support is important to the long-term success of our  business, or who are materially impacted by our business operations. the table below lists these groups and summarizes our engagement activities with them. stakeholders investors customers employees ngosindustry   associationsgovernment/   regulatoryconsumers suppliersphilanthropic   partners type of engagement •  annual meeting of stockholders •  quarterly earnings presentations •  regular meetings, both in-person        and via phone •  customer surveys •  regular meetings with     customer teams• global employee    engagement survey • global employee esg survey • senior leadership esg survey  • intranet/ketchapp (internal social    communication platform) • business resource groups• ongoing proactive and    reactive engagement • in-person meetings    on select issues• industry engagement via        meetings and conference    calls on key issues • board participation• direct engagement with  government officials on public policy issues • indirect advocacy through coalitions and trade groups • support of candidates for public office through the kraft heinz political action committee• consumer call center • corporate and brand    social media • consumer insights• supplier guiding principles • supplier surveys • supplier audits • meeting with select suppliers• donations • partner collaboration  • participation on partner boards   subject areas discussed • governance • climate change • sustainable sourcing • health and wellness • human rights • operational impact on     environment • transparency/external reporting • innovation• animal welfare • sustainable sourcing • operational impact on    environment • community impact/food security  • nutrition and health• climate change • sustainable sourcing • operational impact on    environment • community impact/food security  • nutrition and well-being • workplace health and safety • transparency• climate change • sustainable sourcing • water stewardship • operational impact on    environment • animal welfare • packaging sustainability • human rights • nutrition and well-being • transparency• nutrition and well-being • animal welfare • food safety • sustainable and regenerative  agriculture• tax • trade • nutrition and well-being • labeling • regulatory issues related to esg• animal welfare • packaging sustainability • sustainable sourcing • operational impact on    environment • nutrition and well-being • community impact/food security  • transparency• climate • sustainable sourcing • animal welfare • packaging sustainability • human rights • food safety  • food waste • innovation• global hunger alleviation • community impact/food security • bottom pyramid empowerment • sustainable agriculture    • food wastefocusing on material esg issues   together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  * materiality and its relevant definition as used in this report, sometimes referenced as “esg materiality,” and our esg materiality review process, is different than the definition used in the context of filings with the  sec. issues deemed material for purposes of this report and for purposes of determining our esg strategies may not be considered material for sec reporting purposes.   appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction esg materiality assessment  to inform our esg strategy and goal-setting, kraft heinz conducts a comprehensive esg materiality  assessment every three to five years, with respective smaller interim updates as appropriate. this  assessment allows us to identify and prioritize the environmental, social and governance issues that are of greatest concern to our stakeholders and relevant to the success of our business. we reevaluate  these results on an ongoing basis to reflect any substantial changes in standing on these priority  issues and allow for the inclusion of new or emerging issues. we treat our esg materiality matrix as a  living assessment based on participant input. we continue to evaluate material esg issues to our key  stakeholders and the respective impact on our business operations across dynamic global markets.  material issues are monitored regularly by a variety of internal stakeholders including kraft heinz  leadership, esg and the corporate and government affairs esg subcommittee.   in  , we updated our esg materiality assessment using datamaran’s cloud-based ai software  platform. datamaran’s patented technology provides our esg steering committee with real-time data  analysis to identify and monitor new or emerging issues that may impact kraft heinz, including regular  insight into our company’s unique strategic, regulatory, and reputational risks and opportunities. the  assessment includes signals from across a variety of different sources, including corporate annual filings,  mandatory regulations, voluntary policy initiatives, online news and media, as well as a cross-functional  employee survey. through this tech-enabled, dynamic and data-driven approach, we have strengthened our strategy and governance process to meet the rise of stakeholder demands at kraft heinz. enterprise risk management kraft heinz has an established, comprehensive approach to enterprise risk management (erm).  annually, senior management evaluates changes and required updates to the top enterprise risks.   the erm process covers a broad spectrum of risks across several dimensions: esg, strategic, financial,  operational, legal and regulatory, human capital, and hazard/catastrophic. senior management  prioritizes the risks and develops the kraft heinz risk profile, which is shared with the audit committee of  the board of directors annually. each risk owner provides regular updates to the audit committee of the board of directors.    together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction employee code of conduct  the kraft heinz company and our employees are expected to  conduct business in an ethical manner, guided by our vision, values and an unwavering commitment to integrity and transparency. all employees, officers and directors are required to abide by the company’s global code of conduct, which addresses each aspect of our business including anti-corruption, anti-competitive behavior, data protection and human rights. the global code of conduct sets high standards for conducting business in a legal and ethical manner and serves as the foundation of our corporate policies and procedures. to ensure compliance with the global code of conduct’s tenets, kraft heinz regularly provides training, communications, and guidance to our employees around the world. further, employees are required to annually certify that they have read and will follow the global code of conduct. the document is available in   languages and can be accessed here: kraft heinz global employee code of conduct . ethics and compliance training all new kraft heinz employees receive ethics and compliance training to familiarize themselves with our code of conduct. to ensure compliance with the global code’s tenets, kraft heinz regularly provides training, communications, and guidance to our employees around the world. employees are required to annually certify that they have read and will follow the code of conduct and complete compulsory trainings on issues such as conflict of interest, whistleblowing, it security and due diligence matters. all training is monitored and tracked by the ethics and compliance team.  reporting a concern  to help employees report potential misconduct, the company provides several ways to report this, including through managers, human resources, legal and the ethics & compliance team. in addition, we have a confidential ethics & compliance helpline for reporting an ethics or compliance concern. the helpline has multilingual staff available   hours a day. it is accessible globally by a toll-free phone call or online at kraftheinzethics.com . we do  not tolerate retaliation against an employee who reports potential  misconduct in good faith. supplier guiding principles  kraft heinz developed a set of global principles applicable to its supply chain referred to as the supplier guiding principles . in  ,  kraft heinz launched our updated supplier guiding principles in accordance with our commitment for improved efficacy and due diligence with our valued suppliers around sustainable business practices. the supplier guiding principles apply to all suppliers (including external manufacturers), and we have plans to include joint venture partners in the near future. read more about our supplier guiding principles on page    . political contributions and lobbying activity  as part of the company’s ongoing engagement in the communities where our employees live and work, we engage in the political process to help shape public policies that impact our business around the world. our goal is to ensure issues that impact our value chain, including employees, suppliers, customers, consumers and shareholders are fairly represented at all levels of government. for more information on our political contributions and lobbying activity, please visit https://www.kraftheinzcompany.com/contributions.html . kraft heinz engages responsibly in the  political process in the communities where our employees live and work. our goal is to ensure public officials representing our people, products and manufacturing facilities understand the issues that impact our business. we adhere to the local laws and regulations governing interactions with government officials, and participate in the political process through issue advocacy and political contributions. kraft heinz has put in place effective compliance procedures for, and oversight of, lobbying activities, corporate contributions and the kraft heinz political action committee (kraft heinz pac) expenditures. the kraft heinz code of conduct  requires all employees to maintain honest, forthright  and transparent relationships with government officials.ethics & compliance   together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                     appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction public disclosure kraft heinz believes that an important aspect of engaging in the  political process is transparency and disclosure. kraft heinz files information as required by federal and state campaign finance and disclosure laws. the kraft heinz pac reports its contributions to the federal election commission (fec), the details of which are publicly available on the fec internet site. all kraft heinz pac and company political contributions since   are listed on our website . this includes contributions to ballot initiatives and  (c) ( ) organizations where funds may be utilized for political purposes. this information is updated semi-annually. in addition, kraft heinz partners with outside counsel to conduct an annual internal audit of all lobbying practices and reporting. lobbying activity kraft heinz prepares and files reports with the secretary of the u.s. senate and the clerk of the u.s. house of representatives quarterly, which detail lobbying activities and expenditures. these reports are available here . the company also files lobbying reports  with many u.s. state and municipal governments as required by law. these reports are publicly available through the websites of the jurisdictions where they are filed. trade association membership kraft heinz believes that trade association membership and participation provides a number of benefits to our business and employees, including the ability to remain engaged on relevant issues and as a forum for sharing ideas and information. the company’s involvement with trade associations does not include engaging in political activity. kraft heinz instructs trade associations that our dues must only be used on issues of importance to our business and none may be provided to support or oppose political candidates. find language sent to trade associations here . center for political accountability   kraft heinz has proudly doubled its score since   on the “cpa-zicklin index,” a rating developed by the center for political accountability in conjunction with the carol and lawrence zicklin center for business ethics research at the wharton school, university of pennsylvania. the full report can be found here .    together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction in support of our vision to sustainably grow by delighting more consumers globally, we are committed to responsible, sustainable practices extending to  each facet of our business. the kraft heinz esg strategy prioritizes the issues that matter most to the company business and stakeholders, focusing on areas  that have the greatest impact. it includes three key pillars: healthy living & community support, environmental stewardship and responsible sourcing.  our goal is to build value among our company’s broad set of stakeholders by incorporating socially responsible business practices within our own operations  and across every stage of our supply chain. we’re setting ambitious environmental goals, sourcing sustainably, improving the products we sell and making  impactful advancements in communities – all with a commitment to transparency and two-way dialogue. this continues to be our way forward.esg strategy environmental   stewardship environmental stewardship begins with our  operational footprint, where we actively strive   to conserve water and energy, reduce emissions,  minimize waste and make our   packaging sustainable.  our manufacturing sites can consume substantial  amounts of resources, and are controlled  by us, so we focus significant efforts around  environmental stewardship inside of our walls. healthy living   & community support a key part of our corporate strategy is a  commitment to people, to nutrition and health,  and to making life delicious all at once. some  of the actions we are taking to support this  commitment include ongoing improvements to  the nutrition of our product portfolio, transparent  and responsible marketing and communications,  and alignment with credible science and public   health goals. through these actions, we aim to contribute  to the key priorities and target achievements  outlined by the world health organization’s  global action plan for the prevention and control  of noncommunicable diseases, and the united  nation’s sustainable development goals. responsible   sourcing at kraft heinz, we not only believe in striving   to be better every day within our own operations,  but we aspire to work with our entire value  chain to continually improve on social and  environmental factors.  we are dedicated to responsible sourcing   and related impacts in critical areas to kraft heinz  and our stakeholders. these include areas of  focus such as human rights, deforestation, animal  welfare and sustainable agriculture. we are also  committed to strengthening our due diligence  and management programs, while keeping the  needs of our suppliers and our customers   a top priority.       together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction progress complete:  %   progress on esg goals  environmental stewardshiphealthy living   & community support responsible sourcing reduce energy use intensity  by  %  across our  manufacturing facilities by    (per metric ton of product made).  improve product health & nutrition by achieving    %  compliance with kraft heinz global nutrition   targets by  . reduce total sugar  in our products by more than     million pounds  across our global portfolio by  .  reduce sodium  by an additional  %  in our bbq sauce   and kraft  salad dressings in north america by  . improve use and transparency of simpler   ingredients by  . increase our plant-based offerings. provide  .  billion meals  to people in need   by   against our   baseline.  % of our global management positions will be  filled by women by  .  % of our salaried u.s. employee population   will identify as people of color by  .procure majority of electricity from renewable   sources  by  . source  %  of eggs globally from cage-free    or better* hens by  .   source  %  of eggs in europe from free-range    hens.   purchase  % sustainably-sourced heinz    ketchup tomatoes  by  . purchase  % sustainable palm oil  by  .   purchase  % traceable palm oil to the mill    by  .improve broiler chicken welfare  in the u.s. by     and  european chicken commitment  by  . continue to work with animal welfare experts and   suppliers on best practices to eliminate painful  procedures and promote sustainable practices.  reduce water use intensity  by  % in high-risk   watershed areas  by     (per metric ton of product made).   reduce water use intensity  by  %  across our  manufacturing facilities by    (per metric ton of product made).   reduce waste to landfill intensity by  %  across our  manufacturing facilities by    (per metric ton of product made).   aim to make  % recyclable, reusable   or compostable packaging  by  . create a fully circular heinz  tomato ketchup bottle    in europe by  .  achieve net zero carbon emissions  by  ,   halving same by  .   progress progress progress progress progress progress progress progressprogress progressprogress completeprogress progress progresson track: —  . %on track:  . % on track:  % early stage on track on track on track:  % on track:  % on track:  %on track:  %on track:  % complete:  % on trackon track complete:  % on trackon track: —  . % on track: —  . % on track: —  . % on track:  % completeearly stage * kraft heinz defines “cage-free or better” eggs as sourced from laying hens that come from cage-free, free-range, pasture-raised, or similar natural or open housing settings.  progress progressprogress progressprogress together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                 progress progressprogress appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction accountability   we will continue to maintain esg oversight with the board of directors. our ceo, key leadership and respective   team members lead and support our esg goals and have linked key performance metrics embedded. communicate transparently and authentically we will continue to publish annual, third-party verified esg reports, aligned to industry best reporting frameworks.   we will report climate, forests and water information on an annual basis to cdp and engage with stakeholders   on material esg issues. market our products responsibly we will continue to market and advertise our products in a responsible and suitable manner to all audiences. promote workplace health and safety we will continue to provide a healthy, safe and secure workplace. we improved safety key performance indicators (kpis)   over last year, representing some of the best  results among our food and beverage industry peers. operate ethically we will continue to conduct business in an ethical manner and unwavering commitment to integrity and transparency. promote diversity, inclusion, and belonging we will continue to demand and promote diversity, inclusion, and belonging   in all aspects of our company.governance commitments     together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                   appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction   kraft heinz has a diverse portfolio of products to suit a vast array of eating occasions and lifestyle choices.  a key part of our corporate strategy is naturally a commitment to people, to nutrition and health, and to  live our purpose ‘let’s make life delicious.’ some of the actions we are taking to support this commitment include ongoing improvements to the nutrition of our product portfolio, transparent and responsible marketing and communications, and alignment with credible science and public health goals. through these actions, we aim to contribute to the key priorities and target achievements outlined by the world health organization’s global action plan for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, as well as several of the united nation’s sustainable development goals (sdgs). we aim to promote responsible production and consumption as well as overall health and well-being. we are specifically targeting achievement of the sdg zero hunger through our partnership with organizations such as rise against hunger, heifer international and feeding america, and through our operational food donation programs. our communities are the foundation of our society, and reflect what’s best in us as we lean in and support their everyday needs. moreover, during challenging times, whether from impacts from catastrophic weather events, social inequity unrest, or a devastating pandemic, kraft heinz strives to rise to the occasion and provide relief wherever we can.healthy living  &   community support   together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction   awards   & recognition usa      % on the corporate equality index (cei) for the  rd year in a row. cei rates corporate policies and practices for lgbtqi+ inclusion. also received the designation: best place to work for lgbtq equality  canada       forbes canada’s best employers  -  fortune great place to work certified international zone      fortune great place to work certified – russia, brazil, italy, netherlands, spain linkedin top companies list   – brazil, chinaexcellence in women’s leadership development – china   employer excellence of chinathird sector business charity awards: charity partnership -  consumer goods/food & beverage winner for heinz   magic breakfast work with pride gold   – japan excellence in women’s leadership development award     by  job – chinarecognized by lidl & korn ferry for our gender-balanced  remuneration policy – poland  diversity, inclusion,   & belonging  corporate highlights at kraft heinz we choose to welcome everyone at our table. we choose to be inclusive because diverse backgrounds and perspectives make us stronger, more thoughtful, and more innovative. we believe that our diversity, inclusion, and belonging (di&b) work helps us to walk in our company purpose: let’s make life delicious, and this will make a lasting impact for our employees and the marketplace for generations to come. that is why we demand diversity and commit to not only listening but to truly working to hear different points of view. we aggregate these different points of view along with various data points in this  space. hence, data-driven plans continue to be established for our leaders to drive diversity, inclusion, and belonging in their teams. we have established strategies to ensure diverse hiring, retention, development, and advancement. we will continue to build upon our foundation of awareness by delivering programming that advances communication skills and inclusive daily habits.  we provide learning and training opportunities to increase understanding and dialogue, including the module in our global program:  the heart of kraft heinz, focused on our we demand diversity value. we’ve provided training for managers on interrupting bias in our organizational people review (opr) process and specific learning experiences for hiring managers. we’ve continued inclusive leadership sessions for our leadership teams globally. since  , we have established a solid foundation of awareness  across the organization and celebrated numerous impactful achievements in the diversity, inclusion, and belonging space. we have been steadfast in educating and training our leaders to be inclusive, creating a nurturing community. we’ve spotlighted exemplary leaders from all backgrounds and expanded a team of practitioners across our global footprint. we have made significant progress, and we are energized for the long journey ahead of us. leading the way is our global inclusion council, chaired by our ceo, miguel patricio. the council comprises executive leadership  from across the company and members of our board of directors. the council creates strategic accountability for results, and provides governance, oversight, and reporting on diversity efforts and initiatives. the council is also a critical driver in fostering real organizational change, establishing priorities, managing integrated and cross-functional initiatives, and thoughtfully considering how to fully live our company values. we strengthened our commitment to a  diverse workforce by targeting employee representation that reflects the diversity of the communities in which we operate. together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  % of our global management positions will be  filled by women by  .  % of our salaried u.s. employee population   will identify as people of color by  . progress progresson track:  % on track:  % appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction  diversity, inclusion, & belonging (cont.)  in  , the work continued. as we continued efforts to collect  data to fuel the creation of global aspirations, we also created governance to ensure data privacy.  it is important to us that our employees know that we are using data solely to support the creation of a diverse and inclusive workplace. the global inclusion council heard directly from business resource group (brg) leaders. we joined the human rights campaign - business coalition for the equality act, and the civil alliance, both in the us, and the mover movement in brazil. we signed the workplace pride declaration of amsterdam in the netherlands and spoke out against anti-asian violence. we also participated in the women in the workplace study sponsored by mckinsey and leanin.org and the global bloomberg gender equality index.our engagement  survey results related  to diversity, inclusion,  and belonging will be  in the top quartile we are on our way to our goal of  placing in the top quartile as  compared to our peers. in  ,  employee scores improved by    point compared to   for  ‘feeling a sense of belonging’  and   points for ‘feeling like their  opinions count’.  scores  remained ﬂat for ‘leaders valuing  different perspectives’.  % % of our global  management positions  will be ﬁlled  by womenof our salaried u.s. employee population  will identify as people  of color achieved  %  at the end of   (+  percentage points  compared to  ) achieved  %  at the end of   (+  percentage points  compared to  )  aspirations new aspirations set in     % of our salaried uk employee population  will identify  as ethnic minorities  % at the end  of    (this is on our journey towards  our ultimate aspiration of  %.  national average of population  who identify as ethnic minorities  is  % across the u.k. and  %  within london. the aspiration is  based on a weighted average of  the split between our  populations in our london ofﬁce  and our u.k factories.) % of our salaried brazil employee population  will identify as  pretos e pardos  % at the end  of    (this is on our journey towards  our ultimate aspiration of  %,  which is the national average.  pretos e pardos translates to  black & two or more races  respectively.) we know a truly inclusive culture allows our people to contribute their unique perspectives and ideas, execute with excellence, and grow great careers. we continue to work toward our stated aspirations, as we know that they are critical to our diversity, inclusion, and belonging journey while increasing accountability.  by year end we had achieved our   objectives, increasing by  two percentage points respectively for both our global women in management aspiration and our us race/ethnicity aspiration. we improved our global engagement score for the “opinions count” driver and the “belonging” driver, moving us closer to our   goal of placing in the top quartile as compared to our peers.in  , we added additional demographic aspirations in the uk and brazil, a result of collecting self-disclosed data across our global footprint. we will continue to develop more aspirations for countries in which we operate after similar data collection efforts.  regarding our inclusion aspiration, we will seek to qualify these  values and metrics with internal confirmation through our regular engagement surveys, and also through supplemental external recognition. together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction  diversity, inclusion, & belonging (cont.)  creating and executing   a global strategy following a year of transformational growth in  , aligned with our value, we demand diversity,  in   we created our multi-year di&b strategy which identified four key areas: representation, communication & learning, culture, and communities.   annual day of service june  ,  , marked our second annual kraft heinz day of  service – now a part of our annual calendar. the day of service commemorated and honored the importance of the juneteenth holiday, providing opportunities for employees to participate in virtual and in-person service and educational events. in canada,   we hosted an indigenous day of learning to honor the first national day for truth and reconciliation. our international zone hosted multiple days of service to contribute locally across our global reach.  employee development to continue to support the development of our black employees in the united states, the black brg mentoring program continued in  . we also continued our welead accelerator program. welead was designed to drive accelerated career growth for our employees of color and those who identify as two or more races at the individual contributor level. during this five-month immersive program,   participants in the second cohort learned critical business and communication skills, built connections,   and activated our values through our leadership principles.  launched in  , the we network, a global leadership accelerator for women at the associate director level, graduated  it’s second cohort of   participants in october  . additionally,   globally nominated women participated in  linkage’s women in leadership conference. this four-day conference equipped leaders with strategies to overcome the hurdles women often face in the workplace. during this immersive leadership development experience, participants learned from expert facilitators, engaged in skilled building sessions and workshops, and completed an assessment to identify their areas of opportunity. these insights provided participants with actions they can immediately apply to accelerate their careers at kraft heinz. community support in our east region (poland, russia, the middle east, and our distributors and exporters across eastern europe), employees participated in a step challenge raising $ ,  for the protection, gender, and inclusion initiatives of the international federation of red cross and red crescent societies. in partnership with transgender author nick  north canada’s kraft peanut butter released a limited-edition children’s book on pronoun use for transgender awareness week. along with the book, kraft peanut butter made a $ ,  donation to rainbow railroad, a charity that helps persecuted lgbtq+ people get to safety.  together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction  diversity, inclusion, & belonging: creating and executing a global strategy  (cont.)  in the us, our business resource groups (brgs) partnered with  some of our biggest brands, kraft mac & cheese, heinz, and oscar mayer, raising over $ ,  to donate to the community organization of their choice. specifically, we celebrated pride by raising $ ,  for the brave space alliance, a black- and   trans-led non-profit on the south side of chicago dedicated to helping and serving the lgbtq+ community. the sabor brg supported delimex in raising $ ,  on a fundraising campaign to benefit heifer international, which allows women and youth farmers in mexico to have access to education focused on entrepreneurial skills related to selling cage-free eggs, coffee, and honey. in addition, the black brg ran a united negro college fund (uncf) campaign raising over $ , . recruiting   we remain committed to strengthening our partnerships with organizations that support diversity recruitment. the kraft heinz talent attraction team reviewed its partnerships in   to ensure that each alliance was focused to support our goal of hiring talent from diverse backgrounds. some examples include:  lime connect: the largest network of high-potential university  students and professionals – including veterans – who have disabilities in the world. lime connect also provided kraft heinz people managers with training about creating inclusive team environments for employees with disabilities.  national urban league: an organization committed to finding  meaningful employment for underserved americans. lutheran social services: supporting refugee resettlement by  connecting newcomers to employment opportunities at kraft heinz  plants close to refugee centers. wounded warriors project: hosted a hiring event for veterans at  our jacksonville plant. finger lakes youth apprenticeship program: through a  partnership with our avon plant, kraft heinz is now an employer of choice for this apprenticeship supporting youth in skilled trades. fairshake national partnership: demonstrating our commitment  to consumer rights, kraft heinz is a sponsor and advertises in fairshake publications nationwide.wise (women in sales everywhere):  we are the first cpg company to become a networking partner with this organization, developing the next generation of female sales leaders. our partnership was established in late  .  fostering inclusion   we celebrated cultural diversity through educational opportunities. various events were held throughout the year, including global celebrations for international women’s day and global pride. for the first time, we observed international day for persons with disabilities, championing our support for the disabled community. annually, our brgs engage in a range of events honoring key dates, including black history month, asian heritage month, latin american/hispanic heritage month, and more. in europe, we recommitted to the lead network by signing the  ceo pledge for another three years. this renewed commitment works toward attracting, retaining, and advancing women in the consumer goods industry. since first signing the pledge in  , we have made positive progress and increased women in leadership positions in europe by   percentage points. additionally, we became members of workplace pride, a not-for-profit foundation dedicated to improving the lives of lgbtq+ people in workplaces worldwide. business resource groups (brgs) our brgs are a cornerstone of our diversity, inclusion, and belonging efforts. entirely employee driven, these groups provide invaluable education, insight, and community at kraft heinz. as a highlight this year, our international zone piloted a new brg leadership journey, where we aim to further support our employee networks with personal and professional development opportunities. the pilot cohort consisted of leaders from our uk and netherlands brgs. our brgs in the us zone include: • asian pacific american (apa) brg • black brg • pride brg • sabor brg (for latino/a/x & hispanic employees) • veterans brg • women’s brgour brgs in the canada zone include: • the di&b committee, which has four sub-committees        supporting gender diversity, race/ethnicity, pride,       and inclusion   our brgs in the international zone include:  • gender equality network (gen)  • the   (general cultural awareness and employee connection)  • proudz (supporting lgbtq+ employees)  • reconciliation reconciliation working group - an australian       brg dedicated to building and delivering a rap (reconciliation       action plan), with the aim to strengthen relationships between       aboriginal and torres strait islanders and non-indigenous       australians.  our value, we demand diversity, continues to guide our efforts across our global footprint and our employees are excited for the opportunity to bring this value to life in new ways. the increase in brg participation is one of many powerful indicators that our employees are engaged in our diversity, inclusion, and belonging efforts. as a global organization, we are looking forward to continuing to create a diverse environment where all employees feel included, recognized, and supported, with a sense of belonging at kraft heinz. learning our ownerversity learning experiences include opportunities for employees to learn more about diversity, inclusion and belonging.  we also deliver several offerings designed to empower employees, develop inclusive leaders, interrupt bias, and foster inclusion and belonging. we offer unique programs, such as the we network, a leadership accelerator for women at the associate director level, to ensure we are developing a diverse leadership pipeline. we also collaborate with our business resource groups across the globe to deliver compelling programming that connects employees, increases allyship, and elevates diversity, inclusion, and belonging across kraft heinz. together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction brand spotlights reinvigorating oscar mayer oscar mayer was founded more than   years ago on the principle that all people should have access to quality meat –  signified by the yellow ribbon on every product as a band of quality. with this focus on inclusivity rooted in our dna, we kicked off   by delving into consumer insights and re-evaluating our creative work, and determined that the brand’s marketing and advertising needed to better reflect our increasingly diverse consumers. with that, we started on a journey to increase representation and transform oscar mayer into a more contemporary brand.  we launched a new brand platform and mantra, “keep it oscar,” rooted in our legacy of sparking unexpected smiles and  bringing levity and fun to everyday experiences.  the first year of “keep it oscar” focused on our approach to creative work. we shifted our advertisements to a pop art style  – one that is inherently accessible and rooted in the principle that art can be drawn from any source. in tandem, we made sure the brand’s marketing and advertising represented the diversity of our consumers – both in front of and behind the camera.  this included working with filmmaker calmatic to direct our “yum choir” tv spot that featured a diverse cast, partnering with  animation producer tracey laguerre for our “sandwich ghost” tv spot, engaging with photographer justin bridges to shoot our new line of street meat apparel with a diverse group of models, and working with artist jiaqi wang to design a custom billboard for our los angeles-based fans. while our journey’s just begun, we’re proud of the representation in our creative work over the past year and how it signals  how we will continue to grow as a brand. and we’re just getting started! heinz partners with the lee  initiative to help preserve   black-owned restaurants’ cultural legacy in  , heinz partnered with the lee  initiative and southern restaurants for racial justice (srrj) in a collective effort to preserve the legacy of black-owned restaurants through a grant program and other resources to help sustain long-term business health and success. the grants offered through this program are part of a purposeful, multiyear partnership that will grow and evolve over time.  oscar mayer worked with popular filmmaker calmatic  to direct its “yum choir” tv spot, sparking smiles with its upbeat musical tune.animation producer tracey laguerre invoked fun and levity into an oscar mayer cold cuts tv spot with her “sandwich ghost” creation.oscar mayer brought a contemporary look to its hotdogger apparel, debuting its “street meat” collection featuring a diverse group of models shot by famed photographer justin bridges.artist jiaqi wang brought a taste of #keepitoscar pop art to los angeles with a custom mural billboard.   together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction  employee   health & wellness   since  , kraft heinz has expanded its livewell health and wellness platform across the global  business units. our mission is to support and inspire a well-being lifestyle for our employees, so that they can make healthy life choices within and outside of the workplace. today, livewell at kraft heinz continues to amplify our commitment to help employees achieve optimal wellbeing physically, emotionally, socially, and financially. throughout the year, we raise awareness on health and wellbeing. we focus on key topics through speaker series, global and local events, and targeted initiatives on physical fitness, mental health, family and community, and financial education. our global livewell hub provides employees easy access to relevant external resources and internal programs available in their local countries. we continue to champion the livewell program’s holistic approach to wellbeing in response to covid-  with enhanced programs, including healthcare benefits, disability and employee assistance initiatives.  with lifted covid-  mandates and varying stages of our return to office, livewell has provided additional resources on navigating change for re-entry and safety protocols that are top of mind for employees. at kraft heinz, we have worked to address the stigma attached  to discussing and supporting mental health and well-being in the workplace. in  , we expanded our mental health first aiders program in the international zone and canada with over   trained colleagues. we will launch a similar effort in the u.s. in  . we also enhanced our employee assistance plans, with programs now available in   countries. late  , we initiated the livewell ambassadors program represented by a group of cross-geography and cross-functional employees to collaborate and champion our local and global livewell efforts.  together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                   appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction through ownerversity, employees have access to custom kraft  heinz training, learning and development materials as well as  external resources, like linkedin learning and harvard business review. our learning and development offerings enable employees to live our value, we dare to do better every day, and own their own learning and development. this empowers employees to execute with excellence in their current role, accelerate their learning curve and grow a great career. ownerversity has learning opportunities for everyone, as represented by our ten academies, which inspire and grow talent within kraft heinz while developing employees’ capabilities to help them navigate their career journey.  the leadership and culture academy is for all kraft heinz  employees and focuses on leadership development, manager excellence, and provides opportunities for employees to learn how to live our purpose and values every day. the nine functional academies target employees within a specific  function, providing a learning home for everyone at kraft heinz. each functional academy helps facilitate the development of functional capabilities for employees and their teams to thrive in their roles, which delivers value to kraft heinz. the functional academies focus on finance, it, legal, marketing, operations, people, procurement, r&d, and sales.    ownership learn like an owner seek out high-impact learning experiences. commit to a regular learning practice,   even if it’s just a few minutes a day. encourage others to do the same.   contribute to a culture of learning.performance execute with excellence apply what you have learned to achieve   your goals and targets. meritocracy grow great careers accelerate your learning curve.  prepare yourself to take advantage   of the opportunities that exist   at kraft heinz to grow a great career. the learning & development value proposition what we expect from you... and what’s in it for you. together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  learning programs from the global functional academies include learning experiences for audiences across all zones and levels including, partnerships with universities, functional and capability focused learning, custom elearning development, and ownerversity academy home curation. learning & development ownerversity is the company’s trusted source for learning for all employees, whether they are  attending a live or virtual learning experience or accessing digital resources.  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction learning & development  relevant   learning experience:  % favorable for “relevant content with  examples or activities that helped employees learn how to apply  the takeaways to their job” effective   effectiveness:   % favorable for ‘acquiring new knowledge and skills’ and  % favorable for ‘gaining insights that will improve job performance’ valuable   value:   % favorable for ‘this learning experience was a valuable  use of my time’ together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  in september  , we launched the #learnlikeanowner challenge to the entire company and invited employees to join leadership in this movement to encourage a culture of continuous learning, bold creativity, and intellectual curiosity. the movement is truly global as anyone can learn anywhere and at any time. employees not only #maketimeforlearning, they also share what they learn with other employees through a kraft heinz internal  communications platform called ketchapp. employee participation in the #learnlikeanowner challenge continued to grow in  , with over  ,  employees making a commitment and logging approximately  ,  hours of learning. since ownerversity’s inception in  , the global and zone learning teams have expanded the kraft heinz library to include custom  kraft heinz learning experiences and curated playlists to help employees find training more easily. in  , there were over  ,  registrations in the ownerversity platform. the overall ownerversity usage was   average learning hours per employee (both office professionals and production workers). these numbers increased further in  , with  ,  registrations accounting for a total of  .  average learning hours per employee. the most attended programs across all kraft heinz were our #learnlikeanowner speaker series followed by ownerversity day, our  -hour event designed to bring the entire kraft heinz family together around learning. google analytics has shown the ownerversity platform draws a sizable number of visitors year over year, with totals from   and    being fairly consistent ( ,  and  ,  visitors respectively), and   showing a significant increase ( ,  visitors). in addition to adoption and increased visitors to the platform, for all content overall in ownerversity for  , the results by key measures were very favorable with increases ranging from   -   percent in effectiveness and value.  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction  the kraft heinz company foundation (kraft heinz foundation) pursues its  mission through strategic partnerships with organizations that have programs aligned with hunger relief, nutrition support and self-sustaining food sources.  kraft heinz employees from all corners of the world have passionately joined  the foundation through volunteer efforts towards our goals, highlighting the critical nature and immediacy of our work in helping to alleviate world hunger. we are proud that we achieved our original goal to provide     billion nutritious meals to those in need by  . at the end of  , through a combination of financial support and product donations,   we have provided nearly  .  billion meals to those in need since  . in   alone, we provided approximately   million meals to people in need – from   through  , we’re now more than halfway to our   goal of providing  .  billion meals to those in need.working to alleviate   global hunger we have aligned our current key partners towards this goal: the kraft heinz   micronutrient  campaign the kraft heinz micronutrient campaign, established by  the h. j. heinz company in  , aims to use the skills and compassion of our employees to provide a nutritional supplement to promote healthy growth and development of those in hunger in developing regions around the world.  understanding that nutrition and food are pivotal in the  growth and success of a child, and especially significant for malnourished children across the globe, kraft heinz developed this micronutrient sachet with essential vitamins and minerals, to be mixed in with more readily available food without all these benefits. provide  .  billion meals  to people in need   by   against our   baseline.  progress on track:  % together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction  rise against hunger  the kraft heinz foundation (and prior to that, the h.j. heinz holding corporation) have been a partner  of rise against hunger since  . originating from the desire to provide nutritious and efficient meals to those facing hunger across the world, our partnership with rise against hunger now impacts a wide variety of issues ranging from addressing global hunger through localized, urgent needs, to wider systemic, long-term projects. today, we are rise against hunger’s largest partner.  in july  , the kraft heinz foundation committed to a $  million donation, dispersed over the following three years, to support rise against hunger’s global efforts to end world hunger.  this commitment will support rise against hunger’s sustainable agriculture projects, local procurement efforts and the packaging and distribution of rise against hunger meals, including the supplying of kraft heinz micronutrient sachets. these sachets, added to rise against hunger’s meal bags, include   essential vitamins and minerals. kraft heinz’s micronutrient sachets have fortified over   million rise against hunger meals to date.   during the first year of this commitment, rise against hunger was able to reach over  .  million people, and, through food distribution,  local procurement and sustainable agriculture projects, supply them with the equivalent of approximately   million meals.    key highlights from  :  sustainable agriculture participants in rise against hunger’s sustainable agriculture  projects, supported by kraft heinz, in malawi, mali, south sudan, senegal and zimbabwe produced  ,  metric tons of food. this was equivalent to more than  , ,  meals. these projects, which rise against hunger implements with local partners, support long-term food security through a variety of initiatives, including sustainable agricultural training, microenterprise loan programs to support small business, installations of water wells and solar pumps, and more. nourishing lives through meals rise against hunger also works to strengthen food and nutrition security through safety-net food assistance programs in chronically food insecure regions, such as nicaragua, tanzania, timor-leste indonesia and india. many of these meals and locally procured food are distributed in educational settings to also support children’s education. together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  photo credit: rise against hunger photo credit: rise against hunger partner, convoy of hope  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction  launch project implemented by rise against hunger and its in-country partner development in gardening, the leveraging  agriculture to unite communities and hospitals (launch) project has been working to improve food security for at-risk populations in southern senegal. the sustainable agriculture project establishes community gardens and supports participants as they set up home gardens. in  , approximately  ,  pounds of crops were harvested by launch participants in community gardens, homes and demonstration gardens. to date,   community gardens and   facility gardens have been established, each averaging   varieties of produce, in ziguinchor, and   people have been trained on sustainable agriculture practices.      fatou, a farmer from casamance, senegal, is one of the launch project participants. before joining the  project, fatou used traditional techniques on her farm. due to the dry climate and lack of water for irrigation, this limited her to a small selection of crops she could plant. through the project, fatou learned new gardening techniques and water conservation practices, like gardening in tires as well as diversifying her garden to increase her vegetable production. she has now been able to increase her farming yields by almost   percent, allowing to her to meet her family’s financial and household needs.  together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  project spotlights pandemic relief in indonesia during indonesia’s covid-  lockdowns in  , many indonesian families struggled to get the food and nutrition that they needed. rise against hunger’s malaysia office, along with partner hope worldwide indonesia, designed and distributed shelf-stable food boxes that included rice, mung beans, oil, flour and sugar to ensure that families continued to receive adequate sustenance during this time. the initiative reached seven major cities across java, indonesia’s most populous island, benefitting over  ,  individuals. photo credit: keenan hairston recipients of the launch project appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction  heifer int ernational  the kraft heinz foundation partnered with heifer international in   and   to increase access  to healthy food. working to end hunger and poverty in a sustainable way across   countries, heifer international partners with farmers and their communities, providing agricultural inputs and training, while also investing in farmer-focused infrastructure and market system development. since launching in  , heifer international has assisted more than   million families. its passing on the  gift ® model means that for each family supported, many more benefit, turning project participants into  donors and building stronger food secure communities.  “with rising food insecurity around the world, heifer international is committed to its mission of ending global hunger and poverty in  a sustainable way. our life-saving work reaches more than a million families globally every year and would not be possible without  the support of dedicated partners like kraft heinz. we are grateful for kraft heinz’s continued support as we work with farmers and  their communities to build long-term, sustainable solutions to the hunger crisis.”  – pierre ferrari, president and ceo, heifer internationalenvironmental  sustainability  guiding and supporting farmers  as they integrate climate-smart  agricultural practices on their  farms to increase resilience  and crop production, while  protecting the planet. food security   and nutrition working with farmers to  improve productivity and  diversify their businesses so  they can provide quality food for  themselves and their families.risk mitigation and  resilience supporting individuals  and communities to forge  connections so that they can  shift from subsistence to  sustainability – from reliance on  others to resilience. women’s  empowerment and  social capital  investing in women  and building stronger  communities to end  hunger and poverty  for whole families and  communities.economic   empowerment working with communities to  identify sustainable income- generating opportunities,  building inclusive, resilient  economies with farmers at the  center.the following are key areas of focus in kraft heinz’s strategic partnership with heifer international:kraft heinz and heifer international     statistics  . m    meals produced   countries     bangladesh, ecuador, honduras,   nepal, rwanda  b   calories produced  ,    active participants in heifer international’s  projects in bangladesh, ecuador, honduras,  nepal, rwanda in   together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction feeding america feeding america® is a nationwide network  of   foodbanks and  ,  food pantries  with meal programs that serve every county in america. in feeding america’s words, “to end hunger, we have to make hunger unacceptable,” and that is why the organization encourages everyone to take action in the fight to end hunger – an issue that impacts one in nine of our neighbors.  our relationship with feeding america dates back to kraft  foods group. inc., as one of the original groups to provide the organization with financial support in the  s.  today, kraft heinz helps feeding america achieve its mission in  a three-pronged approach. first, we help member food banks meet immediate hunger needs through food donations from our corporate operations. in  , we donated just under   million pounds of food to the feeding america network through   local member food banks aligned with our u.s. manufacturing sites, bringing our total since   to more than   million pounds of food donated. second, through the kraft heinz foundation’s philanthropic giving we are able to significantly amplify food donations to families in need on a planned basis. third, we further partner with feeding america through cause marketing and volunteerism, all aimed at our shared mission to end hunger. “hunger is an issue that impacts every community in our country, and at feeding  america, we work hard every day to help people who may not know where they will find their next meal.  we are incredibly grateful for our longstanding partnership with kraft heinz and for its generous support of our network.  through monetary and food donations, along with volunteer engagement, kraft heinz has helped us provide more meals to our neighbors when they need it most.”   – casey marsh, chief development officer, feeding america share our strength: no kid hungry campaign no child should go hungry in america but in the wake of  the coronavirus pandemic,   in   kids could face hunger. in  , the kraft heinz foundation made another significant investment in no kid hungry’s efforts to end childhood hunger and bringing no kid hungry one step closer to their goal to make sure that every child gets three meals a day. the foundation’s grants support no kid hungry’s efforts to launch and improve critical programs that help ensure kids have consistent access to food. these grants can help provide up to  .  million meals to kids across the u.s.* “kraft heinz foundation’s continued partnership with no kid hungry is a  strong indication of their deep understanding of the issues that contribute to childhood hunger in the us. and as we continue to navigate the impact of the pandemic on families and the schools and community organizations that were their lifeline for consistent access to food, partners like kraft heinz foundation ensure we are able to help programs reach as many kids as possible. we are so grateful for this partnership.”  – jill davis, chief revenue officer, no kid hungry * meal equivalency varies during covid-  relief. red cross vision statement: the american red cross, through its  strong network of volunteers, donors and partners, is always there in times of need.  through a network of about   chapters in the u.s., the american red cross  provides relief to victims of disaster and helps people prevent, prepare for and respond to emergencies. as a member of the organization’s disaster responder program, the kraft heinz foundation is part of a select group of forward-thinking organizations that provide the highest level of year-round support to red cross disaster relief and preparedness efforts. the advance commitment – before disaster strikes – empowers the red cross to be ready to help disaster survivors at a moment’s notice, while also preparing people and communities for crises yet to come. “the american red cross is part of nearly every community in the u.s., which  means our work before, during and after disasters is never finished. we are extremely thankful to the kraft heinz company foundation for their year-round support as a disaster responder program member.  this forward-thinking commitment enables us to prepare communities for the unexpected and rush immediate relief to people affected by disasters whenever and wherever they strike.”  – jennifer pipa, vice president, disaster programs, american red cross supporting communities in need disaster responder program together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                     appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction  greater pittsburgh community food bank “across southwestern pennsylvania one in seven  people don’t have enough to eat. with the tremendous partnership of the kraft heinz foundation through our grow, share, thrive campaign, we will be able to ensure our neighbors have access to the food they need today, tomorrow and for a lifetime. thank you!” – lisa scales, president and ceo, greater pittsburgh community food bank  greater chicago food depository “the kraft heinz company, co-headquartered here in  chicago, remains a leading supporter of the greater chicago food depository and our more than   community partners across cook county. since  ,   kraft heinz has donated the equivalent of nearly   million meals to its neighbors facing food insecurity –  ,  meals in the last year alone. we are so grateful for this relationship, especially as we continue to respond to an elevated need for food assistance. companies like kraft heinz help us create a truly greater chicago.” – kate maehr, executive director and ceo, greater chicago food depository grow pittsburgh “our partnership with kraft heinz has helped people  throughout the pittsburgh region grow thriving gardens and share meals with their families and neighbors. thank you for bolstering food security and food sovereignty in our community.”  – denele hughson, executive director, grow pittsburgh the lunchbox fund “our partnership with kraft heinz has been  transformative to so many children’s lives.  as a result of the company’s support, we’re now able to provide over  ,  extra daily breakfast meals in-school to children from very poor families who typically do not have access to food before school.  this essential first meal of the day supports the children’s ability to learn, leading to better educational performance. these nutrition-rich meals also act as a critical incentive to encourage students to be punctual and stay in school, broadening their educational opportunities and increasing their lifetime income potential.  these breakfasts are, quite literally, life-changing.” – topaz page-green, founder, lunchbox fund  pantry day and food banks canada in conjunction with world food day, kraft heinz  canada held its second annual kraft heinz pantry day. canadians joined the fight against food insecurity by purchasing a participating kraft heinz product in-store or online, which was then matched with a donation to food banks canada. participating products included any variety of kraft peanut butter, philadelphia cream cheese, kraft salad dressing, kraft   dinner, classico pasta sauce, heinz by nature, maxwell house   coffee or heinz ketchup. the initiative, which is part of a larger  -year, $ -million product  donation to food banks canada is helping connect the  .  million canadians affected by food insecurity across the country with the meals they need. since  , the company has contributed  , ,  pounds in high-quality food donations to food banks across the country in response to the covid-  pandemic.   child aid “in  , the kraft heinz foundation continued its important support of guatemalan children and their families as part of child aid’s white flag hunger relief campaign by awarding a second $ ,  grant (approximately  ,  meals) for emergency food relief. since the onset of the global pandemic, the foundation has provided more than one million meals to starving families in the northern highlands of guatemala. the continued spread of covid-  continues to challenge families in a nation already crippled by poverty, inflation and climate change. through child aid and the kraft heinz foundation, hungry families received boxes of emergency supplies meant to keep hunger at bay for approximately three weeks. each emergency box contains one pound of beans, one pound of rice, one liter of oil, one pound of noodles, powdered milk, salt, sugar, hand sanitizer and children’s vitamins.” – nancy press, chief executive officer, child aidsupporting communities in need  (cont.)  together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                 magic breakfast   marked the third year of our partnership with magic  breakfast, a charity that provides healthy school breakfasts to hungry and malnourished children in disadvantaged areas of the u.k. we increased the number of schools we supported with our no added sugar heinz beanz from   to   and pledged over   million meals for children at risk of hunger in the u.k.   also saw the continuation of kraft heinz employees mentoring the magic breakfast team, including the pilot of a new work experience programme at leeds city academy, and virtual mentoring programmes with school children. in february  , magic breakfast, kraft heinz, and think tank pro bono economics collaborated to release new research illustrating the cost effectiveness of a government funded school breakfast provision in the u.k., where every £  invested by the government would generate £  for the local economy across a child’s lifetime. building on this profile-raising work, magic breakfast and kraft heinz later collaborated to release a limited-edition heinz beanz can in tesco to highlight the importance of magic breakfast’s great work in ensuring no child is too hungry to learn.  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction  global nutrition guidelines     the kraft heinz global nutrition guidelines identify nutrient targets  for our products, with a focus on limiting sugar, sodium, saturated fat and calories. in addition, we continue to be committed to increase positive nutrients, offering delicious products with improved nutrition profiles.  as part of this process, the kraft heinz global nutrition group  identified upper limits for calories, sodium, sugar and saturated fat across   categories that represent our total global portfolio. products that meet these nutrition guidelines align with globally recognized dietary recommendations from the world health organization, the national academies of sciences, engineering and medicine, and the european food safety authority.  progress on healthy living goals  compliance* with kraft heinz’s global nutrition targets (gnts) fell from  .  percent in   to  .  percent in  . this decrease resulted from two main contributory factors: • inclusion of expanded regional data  • updated nutritional information   in  , efforts focused on improving the quality of data and transparency within regions that had not previously been measured. expanded assessed regions included china, indonesia, brazil, and the middle east, which increased global data volume assessed by   percent. we continue to improve data quality and nutrition profiles in regions which are early in their nutrition target compliance journey.    product health the fall in gnts compliance was also impacted by updated sodium nutritional information for heinz tomato ketchup in north america; this was not the consequence of changes to the formulation. in addition, kraft heinz normalized serving sizes to   grams for all category targets globally to help ensure a consistent and common baseline.   further to our gnts, we successfully reduced just under   million pounds of total sugar across our portfolio in  ,   percent towards our goal of reducing   million pounds of total sugar across our global portfolio by  . this reduction was primarily driven by our abc brand in indonesia in combination with multiple initiatives across asia, australia, and europe. we are confident that we will reach our goal and have an ambitious roadmap, including significant sugar reductions in our beverages as well as other global initiatives. in  , there was no progress on our north america sodium reduction goal but we are implementing plans to help ensure achievement by  .  * inclusive of all countries with measurable data where kraft heinz operates, which was expanded to include volumes from china, indonesia, brazil, and the middle east in  . kraft heinz foodservice, kraft heinz ingredients and infant/toddler categories are not included in the overall metric. kraft heinz foodservice and kraft heinz ingredients items do not have specific nutrition targets and infant/toddler product targets are based on local guidelines.  we recognize the magnitude of effort required and remain committed to achieving   percent compliance with our gnts by  . improve product health & nutrition by achieving    %  compliance with kraft heinz global nutrition   targets by  . reduce total sugar  in our products by more than     million pounds  across our global portfolio by  .  reduce sodium  by an additional  %  in our bbq sauce   and kraft  salad dressings in north america by  . improve use and transparency of simpler   ingredients by  . progress progress progress progresson track:  . % on track:  % early stage on track together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction   innovating new   health and consumer   conscious products increase our plant-based offerings. progress on track innovation partnerships at kraft heinz, we see challenges as opportunities for innovation  and a way to provide better products for consumers. we aim to create innovations that satisfy consumer demand for new and health-conscious brands that they can feel good about. we do that by constantly researching, developing and launching products that reflect modern tastes, leading trends, and consumer preferences. our focus is on incremental volumes and mix improvement coming from new products. plant-based  the heinz brand has been making high quality, plant-based  products for over   years. below are some examples of our plant-based launches in  . in conjunction with veganuary, heinz launched vegan versions of  several of its well-loved products. the brand also launched three varieties of ‘beanz burgers’, each containing   grams of protein and packed full of beans. these tiny parcels of superpower make   a great range of nutritionally rich meat-free products packed with all of the goodness of beans & veggies. in select regions, heinz launched a fully vegan mayo range,  including flavors such as original, smoky chili and garlic aioli.  in addition, the brand also introduced a vegan alternative to its fan favorite heinz salad cream. this vegan alternative has the same deliciously zingy taste of heinz salad cream we all know and love, but is suitable for vegans while also being gluten free and containing no artificial colors, flavors or preservatives. organic  to offer consumers choices that help them meet their lifestyle and wellness goals, we have brands with organic offerings that we are constantly looking to expand.  united states: in the united states, our certified organic   products adhere to the u.s. department of agriculture’s national organic program standards and regulations. our organic certified products include certain capri-sun juices, heinz tomato ketchup products and classico sauces. our organic labelled products are designed to ensure that all agricultural products contained   within them meet organic criteria and less than   percent of the total product contains allowable non-organic ingredients.  canada: in canada, our organic products comply with the  canadian organic standards as required by the canadian organic regime (cor). examples include our kraft dinner organic original macaroni & cheese, heinz organic tomato ketchup, classico   organic pasta sauces, and heinz organic baby foods and cereals.  europe:  in europe, we offer heinz tomato ketchup with     percent organic tomatoes to meet the needs of consumers.   in the u.k., we also offer our delicious heinz baked beans and cream of tomato soup with organically grown beans and tomatoes. stepping up to the plate: kraft heinz   esg report                 together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction innovating new health and consumer conscious products...  (cont.)   spotlight plant protein   innovation center  kraft heinz is proud to be a partner-level member of the plant protein innovation center, an  interdisciplinary research center dedicated to studying plant and alternative proteins.  the ppic mission is to bring together researchers and industry partners to produce and study nutritious and functional plant protein ingredients and products.  goals of ppic include: • creating an active platform to study and promote plant proteins • gaining the involvement of key industry players • developing research programs that address industry-identified challenges and opportunities • developing and disseminating a wealth of interdisciplinary knowledge and technologies    to advance plant proteins • fostering partnerships, scientific exchange, and interdisciplinary interactions • addressing the consumer desire for nutritious and healthy food • having a positive impact on the environment • providing additional protein sources for the growing population as a partner, kraft heinz has direct r&d involvement on the ppic technical committee to contribute to the development of the  center’s research priorities, review of research proposals, and has access to plant-based scientific workshops and training courses. the plant protein innovation center research efforts are headquartered at the university of minnesota saint paul campus.    https://ppic.cfans.umn.edu/ together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                   spotlight apc microbiome ireland  apc microbiome ireland has been a strong  partner of kraft heinz since  . throughout  , we continued our partnership aimed at discovering new, natural cultures for fermented foods that could unlock the ultimate natural and clean label opportunities for product development. while the health benefits of fermented natural cultures (such as probiotics) are important to kraft heinz, our collaboration with apc microbiome ireland largely focuses on the discovery of novel bioactive and functional compounds derived from traditional food cultures. the technologies that we will develop as a result of this strategic partnership will align with the growing demand for cleaner, consumer-friendly ingredients and products.microbiomeireland appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction        master  low salt weijixian soy sauce in  , our master brand launched master low salt weijixian soy  sauce. the product was developed to stand out by not only reducing salt by   percent, but by adding high quality dried scallops to elevate taste, creating a heathier and superior umami taste. this product is of one of the many examples of our brands stepping up to create healthy and delicious products for consumers in china.sugar reductions in central and south america across various regions, we have strived to reduce sugar content across our baby food line. in venezuela and mexico, we implemented a     percent sugar reduction across our heinz and polly brands wet baby foods. while in costa rica we implemented a   percent sugar reduction across the same product range. we aim to continue to prioritize reductions across more categories in the coming years.  philadelphia lactose free brick cream cheese  philadelphia original brick cream cheese blends the creamy goodness of philly with real milk and cream, now available in lactose free! it’s a  great addition to any meal, from appetizers to desserts. our delicious cream cheese contains no artificial colors or flavors and is also available in tub format. plasmon biscuits  plasmon has always been attentive to the needs of children. in  , we developed a version of our well-loved children’s biscotto in italy with   percent less sugar (compared to the classic plasmon biscuit) still, with that unmistakable plasmon taste. the biscuit also contains calcium, selected b vitamins and iron which contributes to normal cognitive development and the immune system. heinz veg hoops  this everyday favorite gives you the same great taste of the original heinz spaghetti hoops that families have been enjoying for years but with   percent extra veg. this tasty new plant powered recipe launched in the uk, uses pasta hoops made from carrot and cauliflower, served in a smooth and delicious tomato and sweet potato sauce. what’s more, they’re   percent plant-based, meaning they’re suitable for vegans, vegetarians, and anyone looking to enjoy more plant-based everyday meals. heinz beanz protein pot heinz in the u.k. launched a microwavable breakfast pot that contains its signature beans but also sausage, spinach and scrambled egg. the beans protein pots – which come in at   calories each – are also a great source of protein with  . g per serving, and are high in fiber and low in sugar.    key healthy living product launches innovating new health and consumer conscious products...  (cont.)  together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction   other key global product launches and improvements  kraft heinz has a long-standing commitment to improve the nutrition of its beloved brands and products, and we aim to consistently deliver the  quality ingredients and products that consumers are asking for. our current priorities across our product categories include removing artificial  colors, flavors and preservatives; reducing sodium and sugar, and offering more gluten-free and organic choices. product action market kraft vegan mac & cheese launched kraft vegan mac & cheese. it is vegan certified, gluten free and has no artificial flavors or colors. australia  bare bones gravylaunched bare bones ready to use gravies and finishing sauces. delicious flavors made from simple, premium ingredients and no  artificial colors or flavors.australia and new zealand  wattie’s infant no added sugar custards launched wattie’s no added sugar fruity custards. sweetened with only naturally occurring sugars from milk and fruit. new zealand  wattie’s infant salmon meals launched wattie’s savory infant salmon meals which provide a source of omega-  from salmon. new zealand  heinz seriously good vegan mayo & aioli launched heinz seriously good vegan mayo and aioli. vegan certified. no artificial flavors or colors.australia and new zealand  crave line extensionslaunched crave frozen meals oven baked chicken and ham macaroni & cheese, pesto ravioli with italian sausage, double sausage &  bacon loaded tots, steak n' eggs with roasted potatoes that meet no artificial colors, flavors or sweeteners.canada kraft dinner flavor boostlaunched five flavors of kd flavor boost (poutine, butter chicken, buffalo, jalapeno, ghost pepper) with no artificial flavors, colors, or preservatives.canada kraft dinner unicorn launched a limited-edition kraft dinner unicorn shapes box with no artificial flavors, colors, or preservatives. canada philadelphia lactose free cream cheese launched two philadelphia original cream cheese with lactose-free claim and no artificial flavors or colors for brick and soft versions. canada heinz dip cups renovated three heinz shelf stable dip cups to remove artificial colors, flavors and preservatives. canada foodservice heinz truesoups frozen soups renovated heinz truesoups frozen soups to replace   ingredients across   skus, such as artificial colors, flavors and preservatives. canada foodservice philadelphia cream cheese launched philadelphia plain, herb & garlic , strawberry flavors with no artificial preservatives, flavors or colors for foodservice. canada foodservice private label frozen soups renovated three private label soups for foodservice to remove artificial flavors and colors. canada foodservice golden label light soy sauce salt reduction for golden label light soy sauce. china heinz tomato ketchup removed high fructose corn syrup. china heinz tomato paste launched tomato paste with reduced added salt. egypt heinz classic mayo launched our classic mayo in glass jar with less fat and  % less saturated fats using cage free eggs. egypt & middle east together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction   other key global product launches and improvements (cont.) together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                 abc saucesreduced sugar by   percent in mantaap sweet soy sauce, reduced sugar by   percent in extra hot chili formula, and reduced sugar by    percent in original chili formula.indonesia ready to drink mungbean reduced sugar by   percent indonesia ready to drink soy milk reduced sugar by   percent indonesia honig soup mixes reduced salt in select soup and meal mixes netherlands heinz bbq & teriyaki sauces launched sauces with reduced sugar & salt with same great taste russia heinz infant cereals removed sugar in infant cereals and utilized natural grain flour in recipes russia heinz plant based soups launched heinz plant based soup range u.k. heinz no salt added ketchup renovated heinz no salt added ketchup to replace high fructose corn syrup with sugar. u.s. oscar mayer natural fully cooked bacon launched oscar mayer natural fully cooked bacon that meets no artificial ingredients, minimally processed, smoked with real wood. u.s. philadelphia cheesecake crumble launched philadelphia cheesecake crumble in original, strawberry, and cherry that meet no artificial preservatives, flavors, or dyes. u.s. primal kitchen gravy launched primal kitchen no dairy classic gravy and mushroom gravy with no gluten, grains, or soy and organic. u.s. kraft heinz ingredients dehydrated marshmallow bitslaunched three naturally colored dehydrated marshmallow bits. u.s. and europe heinz truesoups frozen soups renovated heinz truesoups portfolio consisting of   soups to meet no artificial flavors, preservatives, or dyes. u.s. foodserviceproduct action market appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction  infant nutrition infant and young children product improvement   we are committed to providing better products based on nutrition science, taking into account nutrient requirements specific to this life  stage. we aim to provide more natural products, more fruits and vegetables and smaller serving sizes, and are focused on including important nutrients. kraft heinz products are designed to comply with applicable laws in the country of manufacture and marketing. if national legislation is not available, kraft heinz products are designed to adhere to the codex alimentarius (codex), a collection of international food standards, codes of practice and guidelines. together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  heinz for baby pulses our heinz for baby pulses range launched three savory plant-based baby food options -  saucy pasta stars with beans & carrot, potato bake with green beans & sweet garden peas, and risotto with chickpeas & pumpkin. all three options are free of added sugar and salt. they also count towards the recommended five daily servings of fruit and vegetables. whānau āwhina plunket partnership whānau āwhina plunket is new zealand’s largest provider of support services for the health and well-being of children under five. kraft heinz’s wattie’s for baby® and plunket have an ongoing partnership, which has supported new zealand babies and new parents for over   years. wattie’s has a range of baby feeding guides covering topics from starting solids, to fussy eating, to support parents on their feeding journey. the wattie’s for baby careline nutritionists are also available to help with feeding and nutrition information for babies.plasmon nutrimune kraft heinz continues to leverage innovation through science-supported-evidence and clinical trials. nutrimune, utilized in milk formula in italy, offers a unique ingredient derived from a proprietary lactobacillus paracasei strain that, pending completion of clinical studies, we believe can help support a healthy immune system in infants and young children. appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction  food safety & quality   kraft heinz is a globally trusted producer of delicious foods. we take our responsibility with respect to  food safety and quality very seriously, and we will not compromise on it. we all want to have confidence in the food on our plates.   we implement a consistent, comprehensive food safety and product quality management process across our global supply chain. through this, kraft heinz is committed to meeting regulatory compliance with industry standards. our food safety and product quality management process has been designed by us for us. we utilize leading methodologies to ensure food is manufactured safely, complies with local regulations and meets or exceeds the quality standards we’ve set for our products. compliance with our own internal food safety and product quality  management system helps ensure our owned factories are also compliant with global food safety initiative (gfsi) recognized certification (e.g. fssc  ). many of our factories undergo third party audits and achieve third party certification to demonstrate this. kraft heinz also serves on the gfsi steering committee (alongside major producers and retailers), working through challenges to enable the gfsi objectives, including governance & technical working groups. in addition to complying with our internal food safety and product  quality management system, we also monitor other external metrics including product recall, serious incidents and factory  related consumer complaints.   together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                   appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction similarly, in canada, kraft heinz participates in the canadian  children’s food and beverage advertising initiative  (cai), which  requires participants to commit that   percent of advertising  directed primarily to children under the age of   promotes only products that represent healthy dietary choices, or to commit to not advertising directly to children under age  . our company does not advertise to children under the age of   in canada as set out in the cai report.  in europe, we adhere to clear guidelines and requirements,  including the u.k.’s ofcom  and advertising standards authority ,  as well as the netherlands code of conduct on kids marketing .  in australia and new zealand, we adhere to self-regulatory codes including the new zealand asa children and young people’s advertising code  and the australian aana food & beverages  advertising code .  responsible marketing kraft heinz is committed to marketing and advertising its products in a responsible and suitable and transparent manner, particularly products marketed and advertised to children under the age of  . employees responsible for creating, approving or placing marketing materials for kraft heinz have primary responsibility for compliance with company guidelines, and such marketing team members are formally trained regarding requirements and expectations pursuant to various marketing policies, including a marketing to kids pledge.  in the united states, kraft heinz abides by a comprehensive set  of marketing to children standards: children’s food & beverage advertising initiative (cfbai), children’s online privacy protection  act (coppa) and children’s advertising review unit (caru).  as noted in our pledge  and cfbai’s core principles , kraft heinz’s  commitments relating to marketing to children include:  • no advertising directed to children under   years of age;  • only qualified products which meet cfbai’s uniform  nutrition criteria may be marketed to children ages   to  ;  • guidelines apply to media (e.g. tv, internet, radio, etc.) that  is primarily directed to children; and  • no in-school marketing below the university level. guidelines for marketing   breast milk substitutes kraft heinz recognizes the importance of breast-milk in feeding infants. kraft heinz also recognizes the breadth of diversity and variety of circumstances globally that can predicate the need to provide formulation nourishment to certain individuals that would otherwise not receive it.  the company complies with the world health  organization (who) international code for marketing of breast-milk substitutes and subsequent relevant world health assembly (the decision-making body of who) resolutions as implemented by international legislation or codes of practice.  to further demonstrate our positions and approach on  the manufacture and marketing of breast-milk substitutes, kraft heinz has established and published its policy on breast-milk substitutes . we will continue to review our  internal policy in line with the latest recommendations of the who. representation of the above logos does not necessarily indicate endorsement of kraft heinz or any of our statements by their respective organizations. together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction  transparency & labeling we have a responsibility to communicate information about our products to ensure that consumers can  feel good about what they are feeding their families. at kraft heinz, we’re committed to being transparent and helping consumers make informed food and beverage choices, whether at home or at the grocery store. front of pack nutrition labeling consumers consistently say they want more information on how  their food is made and what it contains. to address this need, we are voluntarily making our nutrition information easier for consumers to find by providing nutrition information on the front of our product packaging in certain markets.   facts up front: u.s.  we have widely implemented the facts up front program for key kraft heinz products to help consumers plan nutritious meals for their family. this voluntary program was developed in the u.s. in   to increase nutrition transparency and access by displaying calories, saturated fat, sugar and sodium on the front of each package. the visual informs consumers about the nutrients in each product and how they fit into a balanced and healthy diet as part of the federal daily dietary advice.health star rating: australia & new zealand  kraft heinz supports the voluntary health star rating  front-of-pack labelling system in  australia and new zealand. the health star rating system rates the overall nutritional profile of packaged foods using a strict calculation and assigns a rating from ½ a star to   stars.  the heath star rating is an easy way to help consumers compare the nutrition of similar packaged foods and make healthier food choices. the independent health star rating system was developed in   by governments in collaboration with public health experts, the food industry and consumer groups. kraft heinz continues to support and implement health star ratings   on a number of our packaged food products in australia and   new zealand.  smartlabel® in the u.s. and canada, we provide product information through the smartlabel website. responding to the information needs of today’s consumer, the smartlabel™ initiative enables kraft heinz to provide consumers with the detailed information they seek about our products. more than  ,  kraft heinz products have been listed on smartlabel.org, including boca, capri sun, classico,  gevalia, mio, jell-o, and many others, with plans to add more for  both the u.s. and canada. see http://www.smartlabel.org/products to find kraft heinz products.traffic light: united kingdom our journey toward more transparency involves listening to our stakeholders. by participating in the traffic light program in the u.k., we hope to provide consistency in labeling to u.k. consumers. under the traffic-light system, food and drink labels show whether levels of sugar, salt and fat are high, medium or low using red, amber and green traffic light colors – and is based on the amount per  g. together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction as part of our continuous efforts to support the needs of today’s  consumers to prepare, serve and enjoy delicious snacks and meals, our culinary teams are developing new and innovative recipes. our internal dietitians and nutritionists have established criteria to help consumers identify recipes which fit within relevant guidelines for healthy eating.  united states and canada: our websites in the united states  (my food and family ) and canada (kraft canada ) offer consumers  the ability to find recipes tailored to their specific tastes and dietary needs. our healthy living recipe collection features recipes that meet nutritional guidelines established by our registered dietitians. we plan to continue expanding our content to meet the diverse and changing needs of consumers.   heal thy living recipes  europe: the kraft heinz nutrition recipe guidelines provide guidance in developing nutritious and balanced meals using kraft heinz products, while minimizing less desirable ingredients and promoting responsible portion sizes.  new zealand: our food in a minute platform is one of new  zealand’s most popular recipe sites reaching half the population every year. focused on becoming the go-to resource for foodies and beginner cooks alike, developing trend and insight driven recipes that hero our products. with hundreds of recipes for every occasion, from quick dinner ideas to meals for special occasions, food in a minute has something for everyone.    together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                   appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction  a track record of safety safety in the workplace  kraft heinz is committed to providing a healthy, safe and secure  workplace for employees, contractors and all people who visit our facilities. safety management is built into our fully integrated kraft heinz management system (khms), combining best-practice safety principles with other operational functions in a continuous improvement framework. khms states clear expectations and practical steps to manage risk and avoid injuries, and requirements are expected to be followed in every kraft heinz facility. we track and measure implementation through internal audits, with results reflected in management-by-objectives kpis and factory championship rankings. due to robust site-level implementation, kraft heinz improved its safety kpis over the last year, representing some of the best results among our food and beverage industry peers. in response to the emergence of covid-  in early  ,  we provided enhanced benefits and implemented additional workplace safety programs and processes in all our manufacturing facilities, many of which have continued through  . in  , we also began a limited return to office for our global office populations with heightened in-office health and safety protocols that followed local regulations. as the circumstances and impacts of covid-  continue to evolve, we regularly evaluate our response to adapt and protect the health and safety of our employees, while supporting consumers and our communities.total recordable incident rate  our compiled worldwide total recordable incident rate (trir) is a medical incident rate based on the u.s. occupational safety and health administration (osha) record-keeping criteria (injuries per  ,  hours).   saw continued progress in our worldwide safety performance, resulting in a  .  trir, improving approximately   percent as compared to  . kraft heinz is proud of its safety track record, having delivered year-over-year incident reductions since its inception.    together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                     trir  .  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction   stepping up to the plate: kraft heinz   esg report                  at kraft heinz, environmental stewardship begins with our operational footprint, where we  actively strive to conserve water and energy, reduce emissions, minimize waste and make our  packaging sustainable. from there it extends to initiatives in our supply chain and takes shape as collaborative projects with customers at the other end of the spectrum. notwithstanding, our manufacturing sites can consume substantial amounts of resources, and are controlled by us, so we focus significant efforts around environmental stewardship inside of our walls.environmental  stewardship     together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction  kraft heinz is committed to reducing its operational environmental footprint. we have prioritized  projects across our global manufacturing network in the areas of water conservation, energy use and greenhouse gas emissions (ghgs), waste reduction and packaging. in  , we made positive progress towards all of these goals compared to our   baseline. sustainability goals   in manufacturing kraft heinz management system the kraft heinz management system (khms) standard practices are organized into eight pillars, each with its specific function but simultaneously interconnected to drive sustainable efficiency improvements.  since adopting this framework, we have completed many innovative and impactful projects across the world, making significant positive progress toward our esg goals. the following pages describe our progress and examples of successful projects across each of our environmental goals. in  , we made positive progress towards all of these goals compared to our   baseline. we reduced water use intensity by   .  percent for all sites, and by  .  percent in high-risk watershed areas. we also reduced the intensity of energy use by  .  percent, and waste by  .  percent. we are confident we have set up the proper management systems (read more about our kraft heinz management system to the right) and governance structure, while leveraging appropriate resources to keep us on course toward full achievement of our manufacturing goals by  . we continue to recognize the significant environmental impacts an ever-growing world can have, and we remain steadfast to  balance production processes that can meet global food demand with efficient operation. through thorough assessment and strong management processes and routines, we see opportunities for improvement at various stages of our operations, and we will learn from external perspectives, as well as ourselves by continuously fostering efficiency improvements in an environment of collaboration, ownership, and innovation. the kraft heinz management system (khms) is a set of standard practices and routines, tailored to advance our operational excellence journey. khms is one of the key drivers of our sustainable manufacturing strategy as it guides the implementation of practices to reduce water use, energy use, ghg emissions and waste output. these practices help guide our manufacturing teams to continuously challenge themselves toward our strategic goals and learn better ways of working to improve and sustain their results. %    decrease in water use  intensity across our  manufacturing facilities   (cubic meter per metric ton  production) %   decrease in energy   use intensity   (kilowatt hour per metric ton  production) %    decrease in waste   intensity    (kilogram per metric ton  production) %    decrease in water use  intensity in high-risk  watershed areas    (cubic meter per metric ton  production) together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                   appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction  water use   & conservation water is fundamental to all life and business either directly or indirectly. making high-quality products requires that we begin with  high-quality ingredients of which fresh quality water is a key input. kraft heinz is committed to water stewardship in each aspect of our business, from our quality controls to the relationships we have with our growers and suppliers. as a food and beverage company, having access to sufficient amounts of quality fresh water, both now and in the future, is critical to our business. water is used in many areas of our value chain. it is a vital input for growing various agricultural ingredients we use in our products. we also use water as a direct ingredient in many of our products and as a key utility in our manufacturing, cleaning and sanitation processes. access to high quality water is pivotal for us to achieve our high standards of food safety and quality. high-quality water will continue to be a vital component throughout our value chain. we aim to decrease water use intensity by   percent by   at our water stressed sites. in  , we reduced water use intensity by  .  percent as compared to our   baseline.we aim to decrease water use intensity by   percent in all manufacturing facilities   by  . in  , we reduced overall water use intensity by  .  percent as compared   to our   baseline. water goal progress (high-risk watershed sites) water goal progress (all sites) conserving water through  innovation our christchurch, new zealand facility is a key manufacturer of our wattie’s brand that offers a wide variety of frozen and packaged fruit, vegetables, and other customer favorites. in  , the facility successfully reduced water use intensity by   percent. the facility achieved this through a series of efficiency improvements, including water recycling systems and increased water usage visibility through better sensor technology, and the use of portable flow meters throughout the facility. our christchurch facility created an innovation to address the large  volume of water used to de-ice its blast freezer tunnels and bulk freezer stores. the new process feeds water through its de-superheater system. this heated water makes the de-icing process more efficient as compared to using room temperature water. the upgraded system also ensures that the water is collected, filtered, and used in a secondary process.reduce water use intensity  by  % in high-risk   watershed areas  by     (per metric ton of product made).   on track: —  . %reduce water use intensity  by  %  across our  manufacturing facilities by    (per metric ton of product made).   progress on track: —  . % progress together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction  partnership with ecolab over the past few years, kraft heinz  and ecolab have partnered closely to help achieve our environmental goals. together, we have adopted a comprehensive approach to sustainability that includes hundreds of operational efficiency projects at manufacturing sites across north america. – these projects target reduction of the company’s water and emissions footprints while ensuring product quality and compliance.  through water reuse, cleaning efficiency and optimization projects, we have conserved millions of gallons of water. these efforts have helped ensure that kraft heinz has sufficient water for its operations, while reducing its intake of local freshwater.  nalco water is an ecolab company that has created a unique  d  trasar™ technology. this technology has played a major role in boosting water and energy efficiency in critical utility systems, while our clean in place (cip) programs have helped optimize cleaning efficiency to improve cleaning turn-around time, reduce water and energy use and increase production. in addition, ecolab and kraft heinz are working closely to conduct total plant assessment (tpa) audits. these tpa audits provide a holistic, end-to-end review of a kraft heinz facility’s water and energy use, followed by recommendations for mitigation. this enables ecolab and kraft heinz to continuously identify and drive operational and environmental improvement projects. four tpas were conducted in   at kraft heinz manufacturing sites. as a result of these projects kraft heinz was able to save   thousand cubic meters of water,   megawatts of electricity and   metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent.  partnership with suez water technologies & solutions  we have been working with suez water technologies & solutions (suez wts) over the years to decrease water and energy use across multiple sites. starting with a thorough water and energy assessment, we  identified areas with leakages, excess water use, energy inefficiencies and opportunities for water reuse. in  , we prioritized the following: • water mapping for cooling systems in northgate, australia:   improved system knowledge and control, reducing water losses of approximately   million gallons of water annually (the equivalent to approximately six olympic swimming pools or the annual water consumption of more than  ,  households in northgate).  • optimization of boiler units across multiple facilities: instituted better control on water quality and asset management of boilers to enhance efficiency, resulting in a direct reduction of co  emissions to the atmosphere. • digitalization initiatives in christchurch, new zealand: invested in better control and automation of our utilities. for example, we increased the performance of our cooling systems to save approximately  .  million gallons of water annually. water use & conservation  (cont.)  we recognize the significant role we can play as a global food manufacturer in our own operations and through our supply chain in being good water stewards. kraft heinz is a proud signatory to the ceo water mandate . as we continue to assess and improve in this critical area  to our business, and in collaboration with various stakeholders throughout our value chain, we look forward to continue to report out on our water stewardship initiatives and benchmarks now and in the future. together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction  water risk assessment in early  , we completed a water risk assessment of our global manufacturing operations. this work was completed by antea group, a  leading global sustainability consulting firm and provider of water resource expertise to the food and beverage sector who is also certified by cdp . the assessment leveraged both wri’s (world resources institute) aqueduct data and methodology along with the subject matter expertise of our consulting partner. we then evaluated our watershed conditions from a business perspective in order to validate economic scarcity factors not fully addressed by the database indicators. the completed assessment resulted in identification of physical, reputational/ social and quality water risks, as well as composite scores for each area associated in our direct manufacturing operations. in  , we updated our water risk assessment . of the total   sites that we operated in, we completed a watershed risk assessment of   sites. water use from these   sites derived from   percent municipal,   percent bore and nine percent surface.  after an internal expert committee evaluation, it was determined that   of the   sites evaluated had some degree of elevated  water stress. in addition to our water reduction targets, we have also developed a plan that focuses on these high-risk water areas to drive improvements and mitigate risks, and to provide updates into our risk evaluation on an ongoing basis. moreover, we will evaluate any interim mitigation strategies as needed. escalon, california   fresno, california  (  sites) san diego, californiairvine, california guadalajara, mexico neropolis, brazilnova goias. brazillowville, new yorkseclin, francelatina, italy cairo, egypt karawang, indonesia northgate, australiawagga wagga, australia hastings, new zealandtomoana, new zealandqingdao, chinashanghai, china  kraft heinz water stressed sites stepping up to the plate: kraft heinz   esg report                 restoring local wetlands  our alfaro, spain site, while not a water stressed site, is surrounded by a  unique wetland nature reserve, ‘carrizal de cofin’. the reserve is home to a variety of important native bird species. without responsible water stewardship, these wetlands run the risk of drying out and putting the local ecosystem at risk. the local government of la rioja region saw an opportunity for restoration and enlisted the help of our alfaro facility to help irrigate the reserve using treated wastewater from our site. our facility produces approximately  ,  cubic meters of wastewater per year (equivalent to   olympic-sized swimming pools). we treat this wastewater to the highest of standards and return it to the environment.. this initiative transformed approximately   hectares of the nature reserve from dry land into a lush, green functioning resource for the local ecosystem.  together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction  energy use   & conservation manufacturing our products to finished packaged goods and maintaining our highest standards around safety, quality, and sanitation, all  while providing a comfortable and secure environment for our employees to work, can consume significant amounts of energy. in this type of interdependent environment, we know many opportunities exist to reduce energy consumption through operational optimization. we are on a journey of continuous improvement to identify our opportunities in this area and capitalize on them. our kraft heinz manufacturing facilities across the globe have been undergoing a significant digital transformation to improve the tracking and efficiency of our energy and other utility usage onsite. for example, in   our kirksville facility in the u.s. conducted a steam trap digital monitoring pilot to improve energy efficiency by better detecting any steam track failures, which are commonplace at the site. the new digital, infra-red system solution helped technicians spot steam failures early and better utilize their time on other critical plant needs instead of manually troubleshooting any failures. the  pilot successfully improved energy efficacy and the company is looking to expand this pilot to other high-use steam facilities.    another key example of our energy saving initiatives  is at our cairo facility. approximately   percent of the facility’s electricity consumption comes from its compressed air usage. teams on the ground worked to implement an air compressor scorecard to monitor energy consumption and also built better monitoring devices. over the course of  , the facility was able to save approximately   percent of  overall electricity consumption. as a leading global food and beverage company, our scale provides a unique ability to test concepts at various sites, learn from ourselves, prove outcomes, and then implement successful energy savings initiatives across our business. we aim to decrease energy use intensity by   percent by  . in  , we  reduced energy use intensity by  .  percent as compared to our   baseline. energy goal progress progress reduce energy use intensity  by  %  across our  manufacturing facilities by    (per metric ton of product made).   progress on track: —  . % together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction  renewable energy kraft heinz is committed to operating responsibly and doing its part in the critical global efforts to reduce the harmful impacts of climate  change. a big component of that commitment is both reducing how much energy we consume, and thereby reducing the associated emissions where applicable, as well as rethinking our energy sources.  decarbonizing our operations at kitt green u.k. in  , we signed a memorandum of understanding with hynet, a leading decarbonization project in the u.k., that will supply low carbon hydrogen to fuel our kitt green facility. kitt green is one of europe’s largest food processing facilities, producing more than   billion cans of food per year. switching to low carbon hydrogen is a critical piece of the net zero  puzzle and will enable a switch away from fossil fuels starting in  . from  , hynet and north wales will produce, store and distribute low carbon hydrogen, as well as capture and safely store carbon dioxide (co ).  procure majority of electricity from renewable   sources  by  .  progress on track:  % together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                 long- term renewable energy sale   and purchase agreement kraft heinz entered into a multiyear virtual power purchase agreement (vppa) with repsol. the vppa, entered into in  , is linked to one of the delta ii wind farms, repsol’s largest renewable project to date, which is already under development and, once completed, will have a total capacity of   mw distributed among   wind farms located in aragon, spain. this wind farm is expected to start operations in early  . once completed, kraft heinz is expected to source the equivalent of approximately   percent of its european manufacturing sites electricity needs through this renewable energy agreement. the vppa is expected to generate enough renewable electricity to power approximately  ,  average eu households per year at its peak. appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction                 net zero and science  based targets in   we announced our pledge to achieve net zero greenhouse  gas (“ghg”) emissions across our operational footprint (scope   and scope  ) and entire global value chain (scope  ) by  , establishing our major commitment to contribute to global efforts to reduce the ongoing threat of climate change. as a milestone on our path to achieve net zero emissions, we will target a near-term emissions reduction of   percent by   across all three scopes. we anticipate submitting and receiving approval of our quantitative goals from the science based targets initiative over the next year.  key focus areas of our net zero program include: • promoting regenerative and sustainable practices across the  company’s agricultural supply chain through its sustainable agricultural practices manual, which guides efforts to source   percent of heinz ketchup tomatoes sustainably by  . • transitioning to more circular and recyclable consumer packaging. • procuring a majority of the company’s electricity from renewable sources by  , and continuing to transition key on-site manufacturing facilities to renewable energy sources.  a considerable portion of our total carbon footprint is produced from our scope   emissions, and more specifically originate in our supply chain (see graphs to the right for emissions breakdown). agriculture related emissions are particularly significant and provide the greatest opportunity for reduction through increased collaboration.  overall, our highest impact scope   categories in order of  magnitude, are:  • ingredients  • packaging • upstream and downstream transportation  • use of sold products  • end-of-life  we will remain focused on optimizing our immediate operational footprint to lessen our impact on the climate, while we increasingly investigate joint initiatives with our suppliers to help ensure the highest quality products are produced. we expect to share more details on our scope   reduction strategy in future reports. greenhouse gas emissions progress   scope   emissions breakdown achieve net zero carbon emissions  by  ,   halving same by  .   early stage progress together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introductionplease refer to page   for detailed scope  ,  , and   data.  waste reduction at kraft heinz, we think about waste holistically. to source, produce and package food and beverage products requires several inputs and  outputs related to ingredients and byproducts, material flows and end-of-life packaging considerations. when we think about materials and food-related flows, detailed waste evaluations help us identify where we can ‘prevent, reduce, repurpose and recycle.’ in fact, our global owned manufacturing sites divert more than   percent of our solid waste to recycling or byproducts usage.  in  , five new kraft heinz manufacturing facilities achieved zero waste-to-landfill  status, bringing our total to   facilities across the world. these new sites include shanghai (china), kaiping (china), pudliszki (poland), yangjiang (china), pasuruan (indonesia) and wagga wagga (australia). diverting waste at guadalajara  our facility in guadalajara, mexico embarked on a series of projects to divert waste from being sent to the landfill. the site primarily achieved this by sending any leftover packaging to undergo pyrolysis. this process allows for any unsaleable product to be treated and turned into fuel, increasing the circularity of our waste. the site also began a program to divert sludge waste destined for the landfill to be utilized for composting. in total, the site was able to reduce its waste by approximately   tons in  . waste to landfill goal progress together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                 reduce waste to landfill intensity by  %  across our  manufacturing facilities by    (per metric ton of product made).   on track: —  . % progress we aim to decrease waste to landfill intensity by   percent iacross our  manufacturing facilities by  . in  , we waste to landfill intensity   by  .  percent as compared to our   baseline. appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction  reducing food waste according to the united nations environmental program, it is  estimated that approximately   million tons of food waste were generated in  , suggesting that   percent of global food production may be going to waste. beyond this, food waste is detrimental to our environment, leading to wasted resources like energy, water and land. as our population grows, the pressure on our water, land and energy to feed all those people will only increase. it is also estimated that   –   percent of our greenhouse gases are associated with food that is not consumed  . therefore, when we think of food waste at kraft heinz, we think of it in terms of our highest priorities. we focus on the entire value chain in terms of where food waste can be reduced. this includes sourcing, production, transportation, shelf life, use and end-of- life. we analyze and test how processes, products and packaging can be optimized. we investigate where unneeded byproducts or unwanted finished products can find other uses versus going to landfill, such as beneficial land application and product donations to those in need.  for example, our mount royal facility in canada has implemented  new segregation of organic waste initiatives on the production line. we send organic waste to an anaerobic digester cell and, in  , have succeeded in diverting approximately   tons of organic waste. kraft heinz has joined together with industry peers to eliminate  food waste globally. kraft heinz canada and kraft heinz united kingdom both joined national commitments to reduce food waste. u.k.: in the u.k., kraft heinz is a member of the food waste reduction roadmap (fwrr) initiative. hundreds of food-related organizations have committed to supporting this initiative, which aims to reduce food waste in the u.k. by   percent by  . the initiative is run by igd (a food research and training organization) and wrap (a nonprofit focused on sustainability) to verify data and encourage best practices. kraft heinz committed to setting a target for food waste reduction across our own operations towards the broader goal, and to also work in partnership with suppliers and consumers to that end. wrap committed to report results in  ,  ,   and issue a final report in   against the   percent reduction goal.  canada: in canada, kraft heinz has joined seven other companies  in a pledge to reduce food waste in operations by   percent by   . in  , we reduced waste by   percent as compared to  . kraft heinz will use the globally recognized food loss and waste accounting and reporting standard to report our progress. kraft heinz canada is also a member of loblaw’s  x x  initiative, a key effort of the consumer goods forum’s global food waste coalition of action.  together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                      unep food waste index repo rt   https://www.unep.org/resources/report/unep-food-waste-index-report-  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction  sustainable packaging our approach to sustainable packaging  our comprehensive approach to packaging seeks to meet  extensive packaging regulations, aims to cut waste, conserve natural resources, ensure food safety and quality, and satisfy our consumers. our team of experts collaborates with suppliers and external packaging specialists to design better packaging that incorporates more recycled and recyclable materials. we furthermore partner with a variety of leading organizations and coalitions to explore technical, end-of-life and infrastructure solutions.  in  , kraft heinz announced a goal to aim to make   percent  of our packaging globally recyclable, reusable or compostable by  . we’ve partnered with environmental consultancy group packaging waste can have a significant detrimental impact on the environment and is an industrywide challenge that we must all do our part to address. that’s why kraft heinz is committed to taking steps to reduce our operational packaging impacts, as well as to support the move toward a more circular economy and the use of more sustainable materials. lorax epi to better understand how much of our packaging is recyclable, reusable and compostable. the majority of our packaging is paper-based, glass or metal materials that are recyclable. the other portion of our packaging is mostly made up of flexible plastic films or rigid plastic containers. through  ,     percent* of our global packaging portfolio was recyclable, reusable or compostable. we continue to pursue technical alternatives and more sustainable packaging across key areas of our portfolio. aim to make  % recyclable, reusable   or compostable packaging  by  . * on track:  % progresscreate a fully circular heinz  tomato ketchup bottle    in europe by  .   complete progress * based on weight of consumer and traded packaging materials. includes materials that are recyclable ( .  percent of total), widely recyclable – check locally ( .  percent of total) and other – store drop off       or terracycle programs ( .  percent of total).   calculation covers global packaging and select external manufacturing data. data from primal kitchen is not included at this time. together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction designing   better packaging  we consider the appearance, functionality, cost and environmental  impact of packaging design, focusing on product integrity through production, distribution, shelf life and end-of-life.  in the u.k., we launched a nationwide roll-out of the heinz   eco-friendly sleeve multipack, a new, convenient, super skinny  paperboard sleeve for all its multipack canned products in september  . the programme for the endorsement of forest certification (pefc) paperboard used in the heinz eco-friendly sleeve, is fully recyclable and comes from sustainably managed forests. the innovative wrap design uses no glue and   percent less material than a fully enclosed wrap-around. in addition, the heinz   eco-friendly sleeve  -pack design has a nearly  % lower co    footprint compared with the equivalent shrink-wrap design.  stepping up to the plate: kraft heinz   esg report                 heinz innovative, eco-friendly packaging solution is  part of a three-year, £  million investment and installation at the heinz kitt green facility. it’s designed to provide convenience and value to shoppers, while offering a more sustainable solution to single-use plastic shrink-wrap packaging. the design underwent rigorous consumer and pack performance testing to ensure it’s comfortable, secure and convenient for shoppers while also reducing the amount of material to the absolute minimum required.  together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  developing and testing  recyclable fiber-based  microwavable cup in  , kraft mac & cheese, a beloved american staple, began developing  and testing the brand’s first-ever recyclable fiber-based microwavable cup.  the intent of the design change from plastic to fiber is to reduce plastic use and to be both recyclable and compostable in industrial composting facilities. the innovative cup,  slated for a pilot launch in  , will also eliminate the plastic label through new direct print technology. kraft is  working with outside partners to certify and incorporate the appropriate recycling labeling to help consumers know exactly what to do with the packaging after they have enjoyed their meal. once achieved, we anticipate our fiber-based kraft mac & cheese cups will  save   million kwh of energy per year, the equivalent amount of energy it would take to microwave nearly   billion mac & cheese meals, while saving the equivalent emissions of driving a typical passenger vehicle   times around the earth. we anticipate the kraft mac & cheese cups will also eliminate approximately   million pounds of plastic per year, or approximately a garbage truckload every day.   appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction   designing for recyclability in italy, our plasmon brand launched a fully recyclable baby food  pouch in partnership with gualapack, a leading italian company specialized in high-performance pouch packaging. the   percent fruit snack designed to be good for children, is now also good for the environment. the pouch is designed to be easily recycled in its respective recycling stream, certified by independent institutes htp cyclos and interseroh dienstleistungs gmbh. this means that after use, pouches can be collected and turned into new non-food products within a circular economy framework. through this initiative, plasmon successfully reached   percent fully recyclable packaging for its italian market. annually, we estimate giving new life to over   tons of plastic, which will become new containers, caps, textile fibers, components for cars and household appliances, laboratory equipment and much more. kraft heinz also became a member and supporting partner of the  composting consortium. managed by the center for the circular economy at closed loop partners, the composting consortium is a multi-year collaboration across the entire compostable packaging value chain to pilot industry-wide solutions and build a roadmap for investment in technologies and infrastructure that enable the recovery of compostable food packaging and food scraps. launched in november  , the consortium brings together leading voices in the composting ecosystem in the united states to identify the best path forward to increase the recovery of compostable food packaging and drive toward circular outcomes.in  , kraft heinz completed a pilot project to demonstrate the use of roof board made from recycled flexible film packaging, installing roofing at two kraft heinz manufacturing plants. the pilot was made possible through our collaboration with materials recovery for the future (mrff), a non-profit research collaborative that set out to determine the technical and economic feasibility  to collect, sort, bale and recycle flexible plastic packaging. in  , we installed more roof board at our granite city, illinois facility, increasing the use of post-consumer recycled packaging by   times as compared to our   pilot. we look forward to exploring additional ways at scaling innovative packaging solution initiatives like these. moreover, at kraft  heinz we are committed to engaging in industry-wide efforts to promote packaging circularity, aiming to strengthen the demand for recycled plastics throughout the supply chain. as such, we are proud inaugural members of the association of plastic recycler’s residential film demand champion program. final installation of recycled roof at the kraft heinz site  in holland, michigan   together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                 a more sustainable cap the heinz brand released an innovative and more sustainable cap for   its squeezy sauce bottles, made to be fully circular. the unique new  cap – made of an innovative single type of material – was created after we invested significant research and development, involving more than  ,  hours to find a suitable replacement cap for our convenient and extremely popular squeezy bottles, which sold one billion units globally in  . we created   different designs in total on the mission to create the new  cap, which were printed in-house using a state-of-the-art  d printer. after creating the prototypes, we then followed a rigorous testing procedure to make sure the cap met the highest quality standards. to date, heinz   sauce bottles have used a flexible valve, which had been designed to deliver the ideal portion of sauce per squeeze but was typically challenging to recycle. the new innovative cap has been designed to provide the same perfect squeeze of your favorite heinz tomato ketchup using a single, rigid and more recyclable material. this resulted in the cap - and the heinz tomato ketchup bottle – being easily and conveniently recycled alongside other household curbside recycling. the first heinz varieties to get the new cap will be the world’s most-loved ketchup, heinz tomato ketchup, and the popular heinz bbq sauce. the  cap is expected to be rolled out globally from  , starting in europe. appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction   association of plastic recyclers (apr)  | united states, canada, mexico member of the following sub-groups: • apr film reclamation committee • apr pet tech committee  • apr residential film demand champion program closed loop partners member and supporting partner of the composting consortium; active participant in  the consortium’s three working groups sustainable packaging coalition | united states and canada participating member in:  • compostable packaging collaborative  • flexible packaging recovery collaborative • member of: how recycle | north american & canada     material recovery for the future  | north america partner for the first scaled flexible film recycling pilot     the recycling partnership  | united states member of the following sub-groups: • film & flexibles recycling coalition steering committee • film & flexibles recycling coalition design guide subcommittee • circular economy committee u.s. department of energy lab (nrel)  participant in the bottle consortium that develops chemical upcycling strategies   and redesign plastics for recyclability. canada plastics pact | canada founding signatories, co-chair of advisory council and participant in multiple   working groups working collaboratively to create a circular economy for plastics   packaging in canada. pac global  | north america founding member ( ) and member of board of directors at kraft heinz, we believe that collaboration is the backbone of driving esg progress. many of our internal subject matter experts within the  organization take on leadership roles in global, industry-wide coalitions to drive circularity across the packaging value chain.global packaging industry partnerships and collaborations the national zero waste council | canada member of board of directors and participant in multiple working groups working collaboratively to advance waste prevention and the circular economy in canada. circular materials  | canada founding member and chair of the board of directors of a national   not-for-profit producer responsibility organization (pro) that serves, represents and supports producers in building more efficient recycling systems across canada.  circular for flexible packaging (ceflex)  | european union kraft heinz is an active stakeholder in the ceflex initiative.  holy grail  .   | europe full member of the digital watermarks initiative holy grail  .  together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                 appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction the packaging forum  | new zealand member of the soft plastic recycling scheme petcore europe  | europe member and participant in initiatives to increase the volumes of pet recycling and to  develop and promote new solutions around pet circularity. recoup  | united kingdom & europe   member and participant in initiatives to improve recyclability in the u.k. recoup provide expertise and guidance across the plastics recycling value chain.redcycle  | australia   member and participant to improve recovery of post-consumer soft plastic in australia. recoup  | united kingdom & europe   member and participant in initiatives to improve recyclability in the u.k. recoup provide expertise and guidance across the plastics recycling value chain.global packaging industry partnerships and collaborations (cont.)   together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                 appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction one of our six values at kraft heinz is we do the right thing – and we take responsibility for  contributing to improvements which protect our planet, drive responsible business practices, and  support communities where we live and work. please visit our supplier hub  for the latest policies  on our responsible sourcing program. responsible  sourcing     together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction supplier guiding principles at kraft heinz, we recognize our suppliers as partners and want to bring them to the table to advance the  sustainability agenda. our supplier guiding principles (sgps), which we strengthened in august  , apply to our upstream supply chain and clearly define both our minimum requirements, as well as our aspirational destinations, for the conduct and sustainable operation of our supplier network. our sgps are more robust than ever before. the principles will help us to drive sustainable growth within the organization, mitigate risk and bring value to an array of important stakeholders, while we ensure that we are all doing our parts to create a better, more just world. these principles continue to be included in our standard contract language and are publicly available in   languages through our supplier hub .  our sgps were developed using industry best practices and internationally recognized standards, including the united nations guiding principles on business and human rights, the international bill of human rights, and the principles set forth in the international labor organization’s (ilo) declaration on fundamental principles and rights at work. in  , kraft heinz also launched a supplier facing version of its ownerversity e-learning platform which includes supplier-specific training on the new sgps. this training is a foundational resource in developing existing suppliers and onboarding new suppliers into the kraft heinz ecosystem. the training is available in   languages.  together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introductiondue diligence program  our supply chain spans globally and touches the lives of communities around the world.  it is our responsibility to make sure the impact of our operations remains a positive one. we take a risk-based approach to due diligence aligned with the un guiding principles. this model complements our sgps and defines how and when risk will be monitored, assessed, and managed. compliance to our esg due diligence program, including our right to audit, is a contractual obligation for kraft heinz suppliers globally. we continue to assess risk levels for our key sourcing categories and will  continue to increase our audit capabilities and scope over the next few years. progress on this program will be covered in future reports.  in  , kraft heinz joined as a member of sedex and ecovadis in an  effort to align its supplier esg requirements with industry standards and recognize existing supplier efforts to manage esg risks. we value impact-driven action and are actively developing our responsible sourcing program in a way that harmonizes supplier requirements and reduces administrative burdens on our suppliers – allowing our teams to focus resources on driving esg improvements in areas that need it most.    human rights in  , kraft heinz released a global human rights policy , which  is guided by internationally recognized standards, including the  united nations guiding principles on business and human rights, the international bill of human rights and the principles set forth in the international labor organization’s declaration on fundamental principles and rights at work.  as part of the global human rights policy, kraft heinz requires all  employees and related entities, suppliers and business partners to strictly adhere to our human rights standards, which, in summary:   • prohibit child and underage employment  • prohibit trafficking, forced or involuntary prison labor  • prohibit all and any forms of abuse, bribery, harassment and discrimination  • recognize and respect the rights of freedom of association and collective bargaining  • recognize and respect fair, legal and equitable work timeframes, working conditions (including health and safety) and wages  • recognize land rights, natural resources and ensure all workers’ rights to clean water and adequate sanitation facilities  • require all labor recruitment and employment procedures to be carried out in a legal and ethical manner following the release of the global human rights policy, kraft heinz undertook a global human rights risk assessment with third party assistance. this exercise highlighted relative risk factors by commodity type overlaid with associated geographical risk. the evaluation also included economic and social criteria to determine points in our value chain where risk is highest, and where we could make the greatest impact. the scope of the assessment was all-encompassing – rather than only evaluating specific commodities, we assessed nearly all our ingredient food purchases. this assessment is influencing our plans to continuously develop and improve our due diligence and management programs. we began to develop plans to roll out our two prong approach, working collaboratively with our value chain toward proactive capacity building, identifying areas where we can collectively make improvements, as well as targeting specific elevated-risk procurement categories, with enforcement actions if necessary and segmentation based on:  • type of supplier (strategic, core or transactional) • risk categories and materiality • geographic risk integrated with other risk categories as a result of this assessment, we updated our supplier guiding principles in  , strengthening the human rights sections, including new risk areas such as land rights, migrant workers, minimum age of employment, fair wages and ethical business practices. in addition to this, we established the esg due diligence and management program. this program helps us monitor our supply chain for potential human rights risks and non-compliances with the help of sedex (direct suppliers) and ecovadis (indirect suppliers). kraft heinz values all life. we have a zero-tolerance approach to human rights violations across   our entire value chain.  together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction supplier diversity program the kraft heinz supplier diversity program was launched in   as an important step in embedding our company values into our supplier base to better reflect the communities that we serve. starting with the u.s., the program is intended to play a critical role in addressing systemic barriers which may stand between under-represented groups and the opportunity to be a supplier to kraft heinz. kraft heinz is committed to the fair inclusion of diverse suppliers in procurement activities and will partner with diverse suppliers that are at least   percent owned, operated, and managed by women, people of color, lgbtq+ people, persons with disabilities, veterans and other recognized minorities, with a goal of tripling spend with such companies by  . the company will continue to partner with small businesses and those suppliers certified by the u.s. small business administration’s hubzone program, which fuels small business growth in historically underutilized business zones.    palm oil kraft heinz recognizes that unsustainable palm oil production  is one of the largest drivers of deforestation globally. we have taken active steps to address these issues in our supply chain. we (including through legacy heinz prior to  ) have been a proud member of the roundtable on sustainable palm oil (rspo) since  , a multi-stakeholder nonprofit aimed at uniting all aspects of the palm industry to minimize the negative impacts of palm oil cultivation.  the baseline risk assessment of our direct global palm oil  supply chain conducted in   allowed us to identify potential deforestation risks, as well as peatland/biodiversity hotspot encroachment concerns. direct suppliers were additionally asked to provide information on the country of origin of their palm raw materials, as well as their sustainable/ responsible sourcing policies. details on their sustainable palm oil objectives and progress were also shared. suppliers were also asked to provide traceability data for all palm oil mills in their supply chain. the mills’ geographical location in conjunction with a global satellite mapping tool incorporated potential deforestation and other environmentally related risks in the mill sourcing regions. the information obtained from this exercise informed our global sustainable palm oil policy ,  and allowed us to engage our suppliers to discuss any identified risks and develop action plans to manage them.  : h.j. heinz holding corporation becomes a member of the  roundtable on sustainable palm oil.   : kraft foods group, inc. becomes a member of the  roundtable on sustainable palm oil.   : kraft heinz becomes a member of the roundtable on  sustainable palm oil.   : kraft heinz became a founding member of the north  american sustainable palm oil network. : kraft heinz worked with the rainforest alliance to expand  the scope of our deforestation risk assessment to include global  external manufacturing partners.   : kraft heinz initiates corrective action phase, engaging direct  suppliers to address identified risks in their supply chains. in  , we continued to evaluate our supply chain to assess  our direct suppliers and evaluate their sustainable palm oil policies, track their progress towards   percent traceability to the mill and make sure that they maintain rspo certification for the products we purchase from them. moving forward, kraft heinz will continue to engage with direct suppliers, external manufacturers, and indirect suppliers to advance our sustainable and traceable palm oil supply. in  , kraft heinz is committed to advancing our responsible sourcing program to include a no deforestation roadmap, underpinning our slated   release of our global no deforestation policy. we look forward to working with our stakeholders on our policy and expectations, maintaining accountability and increasing transparency.     - - - - complete:  % complete:  %purchase  % sustainable palm oil  by  .  purchase  % traceable palm oil to the mill    by  . complete complete together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                 appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction our plasmon brand from italy is a leader in baby food with a strong  esg mission. the  -year-old brand sells a range of products,  including homogenized baby food, pasta and fruit compote for babies. however, it is best known for its infant biscuits made with powdered milk, vitamins and minerals. its manifesto, “we grow together, the future of italy” has been a guiding force in its evolution.  across its value chain, plasmon has initiated several sustainability  projects. also of note, in   the brand signed a program-based memorandum of understanding with the italian ministry of agriculture, food and forestry to drive better traceability of  its supply chain and food safety transparency. included in the  memorandum was a commitment to certify the plasmon supply chain as   percent traceable and target  ,  tons of product to be sourced from italy by  . in  , plasmon increased it supply of italian raw materials to  ,  tons. this represented approximately   percent of its goal, up from  ,  tons in  , even as it dealt with business impacts of covid- . this success was made possible with the collaboration of suppliers and partners such as inalca, orogel, milini spigadoro, mila and coldiretti, who have worked in innovative ways to ensure a steady supply of ingredients for the brand.plasmon , growing through   local sourcing and traceability   together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                raw materials created comprehensive sustainability  pillars for suppliers to ensure sustainable farming practices are utilized, including the protection of beneficial insects.  conducting a pilot with x-farm to give  our suppliers the tools to measure their carbon impact and address hotspots, while increasing traceability.production developed detailed carbon and environmental  management tools in plasmon factories to measure and  manage their environmental footprint related to the product.logistics created tools to measure the impacts of tier   and   transportation impacts and successfully reduced italian inter-network transportation by   percent.consumers achieved   percent recyclability   for plasmon packaging. accessible interactive maps on   ingredient traceability.feature story other key plasmon achievements along its value chain in  : appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction  animal welfare kraft heinz believes that animals deserve a good quality of life and to  be treated humanely. we have an unwavering commitment to the care of animals in our supply chain. although we neither own nor manage farms, we align with our suppliers in requiring their animals be treated with care, understanding and respect. kraft heinz believes that good animal welfare includes three elements  which guide our animal welfare policies and initiatives:  • health and productivity: healthy animals that are provided with quality shelter, feed, and water  • emotional well-being: negative experiences minimized and positive experiences enhanced  • naturalness: animals perform important species-specific behaviors  this concept of animal welfare builds upon the internationally recognized “five freedoms” of animal welfare which include the fundamental principles of  ) freedom from hunger and thirst,  ) freedom from physical and thermal discomfort,  ) freedom from pain, injury or disease,  ) freedom to express normal behaviors, and    ) freedom from fear and distress.  we support housing designs that allow animals to perform species- specific behaviors. examples include, but are not limited to, cage-free housing with perches and nest boxes for laying hens and group housing for gestating sows. when painful procedures need to be performed, we encourage pain mitigation, such as the use of anesthetics or analgesics. kraft heinz expects its suppliers to implement practices and pursue continuous improvement consistent with the five freedoms and good animal welfare.   source  %  of eggs globally from cage-free    or better* hens by  .   source  %  of eggs in europe from free-range    hens by  .   improve broiler chicken welfare  in the u.s. by     and  european chicken commitment  by  . progress progressprogresson track:  % on track continue to work with animal welfare experts and   suppliers on best practices to eliminate painful  procedures and promote sustainable practices.   progress on track together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                 appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction* kraft heinz defines “cage-free or better” eggs as sourced from laying hens that come from cage-free, free-range, pasture-raised, or similar natural or open housing settings. complete:  %  public interest in farming and animal care is increasing and  consumers desire farming practices that match their values and expectations. good animal welfare, environmental sustainability, and healthy people form an interconnected system; and well managed farms reduce waste and provide a safe, nutritious food supply. knowing this, we integrate science and societal ethics in our animal welfare decisions. in  , we released our updated global animal welfare policy and our inaugural supplier implementation guide which are available on our supplier hub . animal welfare outreach and education  in  , we worked with dr. kurt vogel at the university of wisconsin, river falls to establish an undergraduate research internship program. the students in this program worked with academic and industry experts to develop supplier questionnaires on dairy calf management, broiler transport, and their swine welfare programs. our animal welfare specialist partners with suppliers on animal welfare improvement projects, such as developing a customized turkey load-out and transport audit. they serve on the animal welfare committees of the north american meat institute and the national turkey federation. within kraft heinz, our specialist provides training on farm animal production and welfare to cross-functional team members and leads our esg steering group subcommittee on animal welfare.our supply partners our suppliers are our partners in humane animal care and its continuous improvement. we expect suppliers to maintain strict standards of animal care and raise animals in accordance with the laws and ordinances in their locale. we require our suppliers to have a zero-tolerance policy for animal abuse and neglect, and to train all individuals working with or around live animals accordingly. in addition to the global animal welfare policy, animal welfare expectations are delineated in the kraft heinz ingredient supplier quality expectations manual and product specifications. when evidence of non-compliance exists, kraft heinz may suspend the supplier until corrective actions have been implemented. suppliers who do not align with the requirements or do not make continuous and positive improvements to meet them risk losing kraft heinz as a customer.a culture of animal welfare  (cont.)    together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction    animal health & management laying hens  the ability to engage in normal behaviors such as walking, nesting,  and dust-bathing is important to laying hen welfare. therefore, by   we are globally committed to purchasing only cage-free eggs or better. kraft heinz defines “cage-free or better” eggs as sourced from laying hens that come from cage-free, free-range, pasture-raised, or similar natural or open housing settings. hens in both cage-free and free-range housing are provided with litter, perches and nest boxes. in  ,   percent of the eggs and egg products* we purchased globally were cage-free or better. whereas in previous years our reporting was limited to internal manufacturing only, for the first time for  , we are reporting on progress at both internal and external manufacturing plants that make egg-containing products for us. in europe, we achieved our goal to exclusively purchase free-range eggs at internal plants by the end of  . in the u.s.,   percent of our cage-free egg supply was certified by american humane certified or  certified humane. pigs  in accordance with our three elements of animal welfare, we believe  that pregnant sows should be safely housed in social groups with enough space to perform normal behaviors. the industry faces challenges to meet the demand, especially for pork that complies with strict regional legislation. kraft heinz is working with our pork suppliers to transition pregnant sows from gestation stall housing to group, pen housing. in  ,   percent of our global and   percent of our european pork supply came from sows housed in pen gestation  systems. broiler chickens  we have committed to improving broiler welfare by  . we continue  to incorporate leading science into our assessment of broiler welfare, while we engage with the industry at-large as it redefines its guidelines for enhanced broiler welfare. we will incorporate a combination of outcome-based and practice-based metrics that are shown to demonstrably increase animal welfare. targets include stocking density, litter quality, enrichment provision, and controlled atmosphere stunning and will incorporate supplier verification, such as auditing. we continue to engage with our united states supply partners in meeting enhanced broiler chicken welfare standards.european chicken commitment  in late  , kraft heinz expanded its animal welfare commitments  to improving chicken welfare by   as part of the european chicken commitment . kraft heinz continues to assess and work  to transition its european supply chain accordingly. though this commitment faces some challenges related to supply, we remain steadfast in our commitment to require   percent of the fresh, frozen and processed chicken in our european supply chain to meet this standard. we look forward to continued engagement with our suppliers toward this objective. dairy cattle we require our u.s. suppliers to follow the national milk producers  federation’s farmers assuring responsible management (farm)  animal care guidelines . this program establishes best on-farm animal  management practices and includes second-party evaluations and  third-party verification.   percent of our dairy supply comes from u.s. farms. our canadian suppliers follow the national farm animal care council’s code of practice for the care and handling of dairy cattle. third-party audits are required to ensure that the u.s. and canadian programs’ guidelines are followed. humane endings we believe animals should be provided a respectful and humane death. compromised animals must be euthanized in a timely manner that aligns with the  american veterinary medical association  (avma)  or world organisation for animal health’s  (woah) guidelines.  similarly, slaughter should also align with these guidelines. efficient stunning prior to slaughter is important for animal welfare.   percent of our u.s. oscar mayer product suppliers report that they comply with our product specifications which require an annual third-party humane slaughter audit and regular internal animal welfare audits. antimicrobials disease prevention strategies such as husbandry, hygiene, and vaccinations must be the primary defenses against animal disease. however, even with excellent care, farm animals sometimes become ill. when this occurs, antimicrobial treatment (including antibiotics) can be an important component of humane animal care. therapeutic   antimicrobials should only be used after careful review by a veterinarian and treatment limited to ill and at-risk animals, treating the fewest animals possible. alongside good farm management, responsible antimicrobial use can help protect food quality and enhance safety. in the united states, where the majority of kraft heinz meat ingredients  are purchased, we require our suppliers to meet or exceed the  avma  or  woah  guidelines for the judicious use of antimicrobial agents. our meat  and dairy products meet or exceed government regulations related to the use and administration of antimicrobials, including compliance with bans on antibiotics for growth promotion. hormones while studies conclude hormone supplements in cattle are safe for animals and for humans, we support ongoing research efforts to further demonstrate the safety and usefulness of supplemental hormones. for example, recombinant bovine somatotropin (rbst) is a hormone that can increase milk production in dairy cattle. globally its usage varies widely in accordance with government regulations. in the united states, for example, hormones (including rbst) are not allowed to be used for growth promotion in pigs or poultry. in some countries, growth hormones are approved for use in beef and dairy cattle. we do not restrict their use in those instances. however, we support wider, industry initiatives to eliminate rbst from the supply. testing of food ingredients kraft heinz does not support or condone the use of animals for research that is not essential to food safety, and we do not maintain any testing facilities. when required by governmental agencies, ingredient safety testing is completed by accredited third-party facilities following appropriate animal welfare guidelines. we do not support unnecessary testing and are advocates for replacing animal testing with other validated research methods. together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  * kraft heinz does not directly purchase any shell eggs. appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction annually, all kraft heinz suppliers of animal and animal-derived products are requested to complete an animal welfare risk self-assessment. the assessment was  developed by a cross-functional internal panel that included animal welfare, procurement and quality team members and was reviewed by an external team of animal  welfare scientists. the assessments review suppliers’ strengths and weaknesses on animal welfare policies, personnel training, transportation, stunning methods and  auditing. kraft heinz’s animal welfare team works with lower performing suppliers, which make up a small percentage of our total supply chain. together, they create  action plans to develop policies and procedures that improve animal welfare. low performing suppliers unwilling or unable to improve animal welfare may jeopardize  their status as kraft heinz suppliers. results of our   assessment are listed below and more details can be found on page   . in  , we also began to develop a robust farm-level animal welfare audit  program across our key animal commodities in line with industry leading frameworks.   poultry pork cattle turkeys   ( % response rate)broiler chickens   ( % response rate)laying hens   ( % response rate)pigs ( % response rate)dairy cattle   ( % response rate)beef cattle   ( % response rate) key welfare issues and status •  % of our respondents exhibited accepted  species-specific mobility parameters • the average mortality rate was  . % • average transport time** among our respondents was  .  hours • maximum transport time** was   hours •  % of our respondents pre-slaughter stunned •  % of our respondents did not have snoods removed •  % of our respondents did not have toes clipped •  % of our suppliers had a  rd party animal welfare audit at the processing plant•  % of our respondents exhibited acceptable species-specific mobility parameters • the average mortality rate was  . % • average transport time** was  .  hours • maximum transport time** was   hours •  . % of our respondents pre-slaughter stunned •  % of our respondents had a  rd party   animal welfare audit at the processing plant•  % of our respondents exhibited acceptable species-specific mobility parameters • the average mortality rate was  . % • average transport time** was  .  hours • maximum transport time** was  .  hours•  % of our respondents exhibited acceptable   species-specific mobility parameters • the average mortality rate was  . % • average transport time** was  .  hours • maximum transport time** was   hours •  % of our respondents had a  rd party animal   welfare audit at the processing plant•  % of our respondents exhibited acceptable   species-specific mobility parameters • the average mortality rate was  . % • average transport time** was  .  hours • maximum transport time** was   hours •  % of our respondents do not tail dock •  % of our respondents do not have hock injuries •  % of our dairy respondents are free from moderate   or severe lameness.•  . % of our respondents exhibited acceptable species-specific mobility parameters  • the average mortality rate was  . % • average transport time** was  .  hours • maximum transport time** was   hours •  % of our respondents had a  rd party   animal welfare audit at the processing plant together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                * figures displayed in the table above are average percentage based on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume.   ** transport time refers to the time traveled between farm and processing plant.   animal welfare global risk assessment key findings* appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introductionanimal welfare risk assessments sustainable agriculture as a food and beverage company, we recognize  the importance of sustainable agriculture in all of our products. through the work of our experienced agronomists and procurement teams, we are proud to work with our suppliers to advance sustainable agriculture practices, knowing that these commodities are integral to our business and to the well-being of our consumers and communities in which we operate.  at kraft heinz, we have a long history of working with growers to promote sustainable agricultural practices, such as implementing rotational crops to promote multigenerational fields, to increase yield at the field and in processing, adoption of next generation breeding through our seed business, and finding ways to help increase water efficiency.  through thorough research in our laboratories and with experienced agronomist teams on the ground, we strive to stay at the forefront  of sustainable agriculture, applying what we learn through trialing and demonstration to additional parts of our business. the kraft heinz sustainable agriculture practices manual forms the foundation of  our engagement strategy with growers, as we work towards our   goal to source   percent of tomatoes for heinz tomato ketchup sustainably. we aim to dig deep in our roots to use   years of forward-looking, responsible agricultural and human rights practices to build on our agricultural legacy with our farmers. we are committed to further building on our strong sustainability heritage, as henry j. heinz (founder of the h.j. heinz company) famously noted, “protect the consumer by owning the product all the way from the soil to the table.”   purchase  % sustainably-sourced heinz    ketchup tomatoes  by  . on track progress together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                 appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction  sustainable agricultural  practices manual sustainable farming practices do more than save important natural resources. they also have the potential  to considerably increase crop yields and provide growers and their families with greater economic opportunity. kraft heinz has taken significant steps to strengthen our sustainable agriculture practices manual (sap) and is working in partnership with growers to implement those practices. in  , we launched our sustainable agricultural practices manual with suppliers and growers in both  spain and california, key growing regions for heinz tomatoes. in the coming years, we plan to roll out audit programs to ensure supplier compliance with these standards and will be expanding the scope of our sustainable agricultural program to navy beans.    building the regenerative capacity of agriculture through a global, farmer-centered,   industry-led initiative. the long-term resilience of agriculture now depends on how quickly we can develop regenerative practices that benefit soil health,  biodiversity, water supply, climate resilience and livelihoods. in late  , kraft heinz, along with approximately   companies from across the agricultural value chain, became a founding  member of sai platform’s new regenerative agriculture programme. the purpose of the program is to build industry alignment, reduce duplication and amplify impact through the creation of a universal framework with locally implementable indicators, to ensure accessibility and applicability of regenerative agriculture principles, practices and outcomes on farm. the program will work to scientifically validate regenerative principles, engage with farmers and develop a mechanism for corporations to verify and communicate regenerative targets to external stakeholders.  “as we develop and define new regenerative agriculture approaches, it is the farmer’s inherent knowledge of the land, its constraints and opportunities, that is critical  to ensuring successful social and environmental outcomes based on solid economic foundations.” – martina henry, director, agriculture sustainability, kraft heinz and sai platform regenerative agriculture programme steering committee co-chair   together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                 appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introductionfsa  .  benchmark equivalence  for sustainable agriculture practices manual in  , our sustainable agricultural practices manual was benchmarked  against sai platform’s farm sustainability assessment (fsa)  .  and received ‘silver level equivalence’. this was the first sustainability program successfully benchmarked against the updated  fsa  .  which was released in april  . we believe this benchmark will help us and our suppliers in our journey  towards purchasing   percent sustainably-sourced heinz ketchup tomatoes by  . it provides a pathway for growers to demonstrate compliance with our requirements, while also offering a single, industry-aligned tool that reduces duplication and audit-fatigue. this allows growers to focus on improving their operations and continuing to grow the quality, sustainable ingredients we rely on to produce our brands. “fsa  .  marks a step-up in the benchmarking program’s integrity, yet  it is even more straightforward and easier to get started. it is great to see the kraft heinz company getting the most out of their membership with sustainable agriculture initiative (sai) platform by using the fsa to refine, communicate and scale their program. we congratulate them on this achievement!” – joe rushton, fsa director at sai platform   together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                 sustainable dairy partnership kraft heinz is a proud, engaged member  of sai platform’s sustainable dairy partnership (sdp). developed through a multi-stakeholder process that included dairy processors, industry associations, and dairy buyers, sdp was created with the goal of driving continuous improvement in dairy sustainability. to achieve this goal, the sdp allows processors to leverage work already being done as part of industry sustainability initiatives, national programs, voluntary certifications and regulatory compliance. this drives greater efficiency and avoids duplication of effort. as a member of this organization, we are committed to engaging and learning more, in order to continue to drive sustainability within our dairy supply chain.celebrating the tomato with the community   at our pudliszki facility  our pudliszki, poland facility revived its annual grower open day in  , having pivoted to an online format at the start of the covid-  pandemic. this event brought together   growers and their families from across the region, along with other industry stakeholders. the event showcased the results of large-scale variety trials of both heinz and non-heinz seeds, to share industry best-practices through demonstrations and field trials. grower open day also included a presentation of best-in-class agricultural practices through its celebration of the tomato, with community competitions for best tomato fruits and tomato-based meals, firmly placing pudliszki at the center of the local community.   the pudliszki facility was also separately recognised as the best  processor in   by basf’s nunhems®  brand and the polish tomato producer’s association’s agro academy awards. we received this award for our strong focus on innovation, large-scale tomato trials in poland, close relationships with growers and for implementing better soil preparation practices to increase resilience during drought conditions. in addition, elwira and leszek chudziak, tomato producers for our pudliszki   facility, won the award for most innovative grower based on their improvements to the nursery and farm operations. elwira and leszek’s farm was first started with the support of kraft heinz’s lead agronomist for pudliszki, slawomir paszkier. example of a mixed cereal crop (wheat, barley  and oats) which is knocked down while still green  and incorporated into the soil. the cover crop  then breaks down, providing organic matter and  structure to the soil. appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introductionkey initiatives kraft heinz grower  open day presentations in poland. supporting farm resilience   in california as part of our ongoing commitment to continuous improvement on farm,  in   we introduced a pilot cover crop program with our california tomato growers. the objective of the pilot is to incentivize the adoption of cover crops as a practice that can help promote soil health, enhance water-holding capacity, reduce reliance on chemical inputs, and support biodiversity while increasing yields. in  ,  ,  acres of cover crops were planted by our california growers and we have a target to grow this to more than  ,  acres in  .  lezek chudziak. elwira chudziak and slowomir pazkier (l-r) accepting the award for most innovative grower in  .   at kraft heinz, we recognize that we cannot succeed in our esg  journey alone. therefore, we are committed to bringing bold, innovative, and like-minded partners ’together at the table’ to help lead the way. bowles farming company is a key global tomato supplier for  many of our well-loved brands, including the iconic heinz tomato ketchup. as a  -year-old family-run farm, bowles understands the importance of sustainable and regenerative agriculture. their philosophy centers around stewardship and farming with the natural world in focus. bowles is adjacent to the second largest contiguous wetland in the  u.s. to help preserve this area of great biodiversity value, they own and manage   acres of wetland within their boundary and work with a wide range of stakeholders to maintain these lands. these initiatives include native plant cultivation to help pollinators and beneficial insects thrive around the farm. recognizing a shortage supplier spotlight bowles farming company together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                of native materials in their community, bowles also set up the great valley seed company to ensure that local communities have access to these essential seeds. today, they grow over   species that can be used in restoration and pollinator support programs. the farm also operates drip irrigation systems powered by their on-site solar farm and composting projects utilizing feedstock from their local communities to further increase farm resilience and circularity. in addition to caring for the environment, farm  leadership actively supports the safety, health and education of their employees and the surrounding community. most notably, bowles implemented the bf scholars program in   to support the educational journeys of their employees’ children. as a proud customer, we applaud bowles farm’s leadership in  advancing sustainable agriculture. we are excited to continue bringing them and other like-minded suppliers ‘together at the table’ to drive esg progress. “from our vantage point here on the farm, we see the word “sustainability”  widely used but not often backed up with strong evidence. we value collaborative relationships with supply chain partners that want to provide consumers with true stories of sustainable production that consumers can trust and feel good about. kraft heinz is one of those key partners who take the time to visit the farm and partner in our journey to produce products in a way that authentically supports people and the planet. we value our relationship with kraft heinz and admire their leadership in true sustainability.” – cannon michael, president and ceo, bowles farming company bowles receives organic waste from their local communities that is then converted into certified  organic compost. they use most of this compost on their farm, which improves soil quality and   water retention, and reduces the amount of nitrogen fertilizer needed in its operations. appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction bowles on-site solar  farm produces over  .  megawatts of energy which significantly offsets their on-site energy demand.  appendix:  esg metrics     together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction esg metrics   as of   calendar year end metric unit       gri sasb tcfd notes environmental stewardship energy goal metric: reduction of energy use intensity using   baseline percentagegoal made in   - . % - . %  -  metrics and targets (a) goal metric: percentage of electricity from renewable sources percentagegoal made in   not reported  . %  -  metrics and targets (a) total energy use * mwh  , ,   , ,   , ,   -  fb-pf- a.  metrics and targets (a) energy use intensity *kwh per metric ton of   product       -  metrics and targets (a) total purchased electricity mwh  , ,   , ,   , ,   -  fb-pf- a.  metrics and targets (a) total purchased electricity generated onsite mwh not reported not reported  ,   -  fb-pf- a.  metrics and targets (a) total consumption of fuel (excluding feedstock) mwh  , ,   , ,   , ,   -  fb-mp- a.  metrics and targets (b) greenhouse gas emissions  gross scope   emissions* metric tons co e  ,   ,   ,   -  fb-mp- a.  metrics and targets (b) gross scope   emissions (location-based)* metric tons co e  ,   ,   ,   -  fb-mp- a.  metrics and targets (b) gross scope   emissions (market-based)* metric tons co e not reported  ,   ,   -  fb-mp- a.  metrics and targets (b) outside of scopes (biogenic emissions) metric tons co e  ,   ,   ,   -  fb-mp- a.  metrics and targets (b)emissions associated with biomass use at  select facilities scope   &   intensitymetric tons co e per metric ton of product .   .   .   -  fb-mp- a.  metrics and targets (b) total scope   emissions* metric tons co e  , ,   , ,   , ,   -  metrics and targets (b)   data was not  externally verified category  : purchased goods and services* metric tons co e  , ,   , ,   , ,   -  metrics and targets (b)   data was not  externally verified category  : capital goods* metric tons co e  ,   ,   ,   -  metrics and targets (b)   data was not  externally verified category  : fuel and energy-related activities* metric tons co e  ,   ,   ,   -  metrics and targets (b)   data was not  externally verified category  : upstream transportation and distribution* metric tons co e  , ,   , ,   , ,   -  metrics and targets (b)   data was not  externally verified category  : waste generated in operations* metric tons co e  ,   ,   ,   -  metrics and targets (b)   data was not  externally verified category  : business travel* metric tons co e  ,   ,   ,   -  metrics and targets (b)   data was not  externally verified category  : employee commuting* metric tons co e  ,   ,   ,   -  metrics and targets (b)   data was not  externally verified category  : downstream transportation and distribution* metric tons co e  , ,   , ,   , ,   -  metrics and targets (b)   data was not  externally verified category  : use of sold products* metric tons co e not reported  , ,   , ,   -  metrics and targets (b)   data was not  externally verified category  : end of life treatment of sold products* metric tons co e  , ,   , ,   , ,   -  metrics and targets (b)   data was not  externally verified  *indicates metrics that have undergone limited level assurance by a third-party associate for   data. review full   and historical assurance statements at https://www.kraftheinzcompany.com/esg/verifications.html . please note that some historical data may have been updated from previous reports due to better data accuracy and due diligence.  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                select   scope   data have been amended. please refer to our latest esg report for the most accurate figures  esg metrics (cont.)   together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                metric unit       gri sasb tcfd notes water goal metric: reduction of water intensity (all facilities) using    baselinepercentagegoal made in   - . % - . %  -  fb-pf- a.  metrics and targets (b) goal metric: reduction of water intensity (high-risk watershed areas) using   baselinepercentagegoal made in   - . % - . %  -  fb-pf- a.  metrics and targets (b) total water withdrawals (all facilities)* thousand cubic meters  ,   ,   ,   -  fb-pf- a.  metrics and targets (b) total water withdrawals (high-risk watershed areas)* thousand cubic meters  ,   ,   ,   -  fb-pf- a.  metrics and targets (b) water use intensity (all facilities)*cubic meters per metric tons of product .   .   .   -  fb-pf- a.  metrics and targets (b) water use intensity (high-risk watershed areas)*cubic meters per metric tons of product .   .   .   -  fb-pf- a.  metrics and targets (b) waste goal metric: reduction of waste to landfill intensity using   baseline percentagegoal made in   - . % - . %  -  total waste to landfill* metric tons  ,   ,   ,   -  waste to landfill intensity *metric tons waste per metric tons of product .   .   .   -  responsible sourcing material goal metric: percentage that is recyclable, reusable, and/or compostable (as a percent-age of total weight of all packaging)percentage  %  %  % fb-pf- a. includes materials that are recyclable, widely  recyclable - check locally and other - store drop off or terracycle.   calculation covers global packaging and select external manufacturing data. data from primal kitchen is not included at this time.   value based on estimate.   total weight of all packaging metric tons not reported  , ,   , ,  fb-pf- a.  percentage made from recycled and/or renewable materials  (as a per - cent-age of total weight of all packaging)percentage not reported  %  % fb-pf- a.  based on industry average of recycled content total weight of all plastic packaging metric tons not reported  ,   ,  non-renewable materials used to produce or package primary products metric tons not reported  ,   ,   -  renewable materials used to produce or package primary products metric tons not reported  ,   ,   -  appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction *indicates metrics that have undergone limited level assurance by a third-party associate for   data. review full assurance statements at https://www.kraftheinzcompany.com/esg/verifications.html . please note that some historical data may have been updated from previous reports due to better data accuracy and due diligence.    together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                metric unit       gri sasb tcfd notes palm oil goal metric: percentage of direct suppliers (tier  ) suppliers with rspo  certificationpercentage  %  %  % fb-pf- a.  goal metric: percentage of direct supply chain traceable to the mill percentage  . %  . %  % fb-pf- a.  percentage of direct suppliers with  sustainable palm oil sourcing policies in placepercentage  %  %  % fb-pf- a.  a sustainable sourcing policy is defined as  either a publicly available sustainable palm oil policy or rspo certification percentage of external manufacturers' suppliers with rspo certification percentage  %  %  % fb-pf- a.  percentage of external manufacturers' suppliers with sustainable sourcing  policies in place percentage  %  %  % fb-pf- a. a sustainable sourcing policy is defined as  either a publicly available sustainable palm oil policy or rspo certification tomatoes goal metric: percentage of sustainability sourced heinz ketchup tomatoes percentage goal made in   on track fb-pf- a.  animal welfare turkeys percentage of supplier respondents that exhibited accepted   species-specific mobility parameterspercentage not reported not reported  %  values are average percentage based  on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume.  average mortality rate percentage not reported not reported  . %  values are average percentage based on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume.  average transportation time hours not reported not reported  .  values are average percentage based on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume.  maximum transportation time hours not reported not reported   values are average percentage based on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume.  percentage of supplier respondents that pre-slaughter stunned percentage not reported not reported  %  values are average percentage based on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume.  percentage of supplier respondents that had a  rd party animal welfare  audit at the processing plantpercentage not reported not reported  %  values are average percentage based  on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume.  percentage of supplier respondents that do not have snoods removed percentage  %  %  % fb-mp- a.  values are average percentage based on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume. data prior to   only included u.s. suppliers. appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction *indicates metrics that have undergone limited level assurance by a third-party associate for   data. review full assurance statements at https://www.kraftheinzcompany.com/esg/verifications.html . please note that some historical data may have been updated from previous reports due to better data accuracy and due diligence. esg metrics (cont.) *indicates metrics that have undergone limited level assurance by a third-party associate for   data. review full assurance statements at https://www.kraftheinzcompany.com/esg/verifications.html . please note that some historical data may have been updated from previous reports due to better data accuracy and due diligence.    together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                 appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introductionmetric unit       gri sasb tcfd notes percentage of supplier respondents that do not have toes clipped percentage  %  %  % fb-mp- a.  values are average percentage based  on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume. data prior to   only included u.s. suppliers. percentage of supplier respondents that have annual animal welfare  audits  at the plantpercentage  %  %  % fb-mp- a.  values are average percentage based  on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume. data prior to   only included u.s. suppliers. broiler chickens percentage of supplier respondents that exhibited accepted   species-specific mobility parameterspercentage not reported not reported  %  values are average percentage based  on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume. average mortality rate percentage not reported not reported  . %  values are average percentage based on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume. average transportation time hours not reported not reported  .  values are average percentage based on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume. maximum transportation time hours not reported not reported   values are average percentage based on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume. percentage of supplier respondents that pre-slaughter stunned percentage not reported not reported  . %  values are average percentage based on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume. percentage of supplier respondents had a  rd party animal welfare audit  at the processing plantpercentage not reported not reported  %  values are average percentage based  on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume. laying hens goal metric: percentage of global eggs that are cage-free or better percentage  %  %  % fb-mp- a. kraft heinz defines “cage-free or better” eggs as sourced from laying hens that come from cage-free, free-range, pasture-raised, or similar natural or open housing settings. hens in both cage-free and free-range housing are provided with litter, perches and nest boxes.  data does not include primal kitchen at this time. in  , we expanded our boundary to include external manufacturing sites." goal metric: percentage of european eggs from free-range farms percentage  %  %  . % fb-mp- a. when required by law or recommended by a veterinarian or other trusted animal health expert, free-range hens may be temporarily kept indoors to prevent illness and promote animal well-being.   data does not include primal kitchen at this time. in  , we expanded our boundary to include external manufacturing sites. esg metrics (cont.)   together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                 appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction*indicates metrics that have undergone limited level assurance by a third-party associate for   data. review full assurance statements at https://www.kraftheinzcompany.com/esg/verifications.html . please note that some historical data may have been updated from previous reports due to better data accuracy and due diligence. metric unit       gri sasb tcfd notes percentage of u.s. eggs that are cage-free or better percentage  %  %  % fb-mp- a. data does not include primal kitchen at this  time. in  , we expanded our boundary to include external manufacturing sites.  percentage of u.s. eggs certified by american humane certified, certified  humane, or united egg producerspercentage  %  %  % fb-mp- a. data does not include primal kitchen at this  time. in  , we expanded our boundary to include external manufacturing sites.  percentage of latina america eggs that are cage-free or better percentagedata not  available %  % fb-mp- a. data does not include primal kitchen at this time. in  , we expanded our boundary to include external manufacturing sites.  percentage of europe, the middle east and africa eggs that are cage-free  or better percentagedata not  available %  % fb-mp- a. data does not include primal kitchen at this  time. in  , we expanded our boundary to include external manufacturing sites.  percentage of canada eggs that are cage-free or better percentage  %  %  % fb-mp- a. data does not include primal kitchen at this time. in  , we expanded our boundary to include external manufacturing sites.  percentage of asia pacific eggs that are cage-free or better percentagedata not  available %  % fb-mp- a. data does not include primal kitchen at this time. in  , we expanded our boundary to include external manufacturing sites.  percentage of supplier respondents that exhibited accepted   species-specific mobility parameterspercentage not reported not reported  %  values are average percentage based  on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume. average mortality rate percentage not reported not reported  . %  values are average percentage based on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume. average transportation time hours not reported not reported  .  values are average percentage based on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume. maximum transportation time hours not reported not reported  .  values are average percentage based on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume. pigs percentage of global pork supply from sows housed in group pens during  gestation.percentage  %  %  % fb-mp- a. data does not include primal kitchen and  external manufacturing sites at this time. percentage of european pork supply from sows housed in group pens  during gestation.percentage  %  %  % fb-mp- a. data does not include primal kitchen and  external manufacturing sites at this time. percentage of supplier respondents that exhibited accepted   species-specific mobility parameterspercentage not reported not reported  %  values are average percentage based  on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume.  average mortality rate percentage not reported not reported  . %  values are average percentage based on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume.  average transportation time hours not reported not reported  .  values are average percentage based on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume. esg metrics (cont.)   together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                 appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction*indicates metrics that have undergone limited level assurance by a third-party associate for   data. review full assurance statements at https://www.kraftheinzcompany.com/esg/verifications.html . please note that some historical data may have been updated from previous reports due to better data accuracy and due diligence. metric unit       gri sasb tcfd notes maximum transportation time hours not reported not reported   values are average percentage based  on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume.  percentage of supplier respondents with annual animal welfare audits at  the plantpercentage  %  %  % fb-mp- a.  values are average percentage based  on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume. data prior to   only included u.s. suppliers. dairy cattle percentage of supplier respondents that exhibited accepted species-spe- cific mobility parameterspercentage not reported not reported  %  values are average percentage based  on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume. average mortality rate percentage not reported not reported  . %  values are average percentage based on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume. average transportation time hours not reported not reported   values are average percentage based on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume. maximum transportation time hours not reported not reported   values are average percentage based on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume. percentage of suppliers that do not tail dock percentage  %  %  % fb-mp- a.  values are average percentage based on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume. data prior to   only included u.s. suppliers. percentage of dairy supplier respondents that do not have hock injuries percentage  %  %  % fb-mp- a.  values are average percentage based on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume. data prior to   only included u.s. suppliers. percentage of suppliers respondents that are free from moderate or  severe lamenesspercentage  %  %  % fb-mp- a.  values are average percentage based  on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume. data prior to   only included u.s. suppliers. beef cattle percentage of supplier respondents that exhibited accepted   species-specific mobility parameterspercentage not reported not reported  . %  values are average percentage based  on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume. average mortality rate percentage not reported not reported  . %  values are average percentage based on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume.esg metrics (cont.)   together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                 appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction*indicates metrics that have undergone limited level assurance by a third-party associate for   data. review full assurance statements at https://www.kraftheinzcompany.com/esg/verifications.html . please note that some historical data may have been updated from previous reports due to better data accuracy and due diligence. metric unit       gri sasb tcfd notes average transportation time hours not reported not reported  .  values are average percentage based  on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume. maximum transportation time hours not reported not reported   values are average percentage based on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume. percentage of supplier respondents that have annual animal welfare  audits at the plantpercentage  %  %  % fb-mp- a.  values are average percentage based  on supplier self-reporting though kraft heinz animal welfare risk assessment and are not weighted by volume. data prior to   only included u.s. suppliers. healthy living & community support  goal metric: percentage compliance with kraft heinz global nutrition  targetspercentage  . %  . %  . % fb-pf- a. inclusive of all countries with measurable  data where kraft heinz operates, which was expanded to include volumes from china, indonesia, brazil, and the middle east in  . kraft heinz foodservice, kraft heinz ingredients and infant/toddler categories are not included in the overall metric. kraft heinz foodservice and kraft heinz ingredients items do not have specific nutrition targets and infant/toddler product targets are based on local guidelines.  goal metric: amount of sugar reduced in products poundsgoal made in   ,   , ,  fb-pf- a.  goal metric: amount of sodium reduced in bbq sauce and kraft salad  dressings in north americapercentagegoal made in   not reported   fb-pf- a. in  , we did not make progress on our  north america sodium goals but are planning actions to ensure achievement by  .  goal metric: meals provided to people in need number of meals  , ,   , ,   , ,  workplace metrics global employees  goal metric: women in management roles percentage of employees  in management roles %  %  %  -  goal metric: people of color (u.s. employees only)percentage of total employeesnot reported  %  %  -  data for   may differ slightly from kraft  heinz  -k filings due to selected reporting period and rounding. goal metric: ethnic minorities in the u.k.percentage of total em- ployees in the u.k.goal made in   goal made in   %  - the aspiration is based on a weighted average  of the split between our populations in london office and our factories. goal metric: pretos e pardos (black & two or more races) in brazilpercentage of salaried  employees in brazilgoal made in   goal made in   %  - esg metrics (cont.)   together at the table: kraft heinz   esg report                 appendix environmental stewardship responsible sourcing healthy living & community support appendix introduction*indicates metrics that have undergone limited level assurance by a third-party associate for   data. review full assurance statements at https://www.kraftheinzcompany.com/esg/verifications.html . please note that some historical data may have been updated from previous reports due to better data accuracy and due diligence.  we define the executive leadership team (elt) as individuals who were members of the elt as of fiscal year end plus any individuals who were members of the elt for   months or more of the fiscal year.metric unit       gri sasb tcfd notes total employees number of employees  ,   ,   ,   - total employees include temporary, seasonal  and student workers in addition to regular full-time employees. note that all reported global employee metrics do not include employees that joined the company as part of acquisitions that closed in the fourth quarter of  , which represent approximately   percent of our total employees globally as of december  ,  .  full-time employeespercentage of total  employees . %  . %  . %  -  part-time employeespercentage of total employees . %  . %  . %  -  womenpercentage of total employees %  %  %  -  menpercentage of total employees %  %  %  -  nonbinary percentage of total employeesnot reported <  % <  %  -  gender not disclosedpercentage of total employeesnot reported <  % <  %  -  white (u.s. employees only) percentage of total employeesnot reported  %  %  -  ethnicity not available (u.s. employees only) percentage of total employeesnot reported  %  %  -  executive leadership team african american or blackpercentage of executive leadership team %  %  %  - we define the executive leadership team  (elt) as individuals who were members of the elt as of fiscal year end plus any individuals who were members of the elt for   months or more of the fiscal year. hispanic or latinopercentage of executive  leadership team %  %  %  -  whitepercentage of executive leadership team %  %  %  -  womenpercentage of executive leadership team %  %  %  -  menpercentage of executive leadership team %  %  %  -  safety metrics total recordable incident rate (trir) rate  .   .   .  fb-mp- a.  learning & development metrics average learning hours per employee hours      . esg metrics (cont.) kraft heinz co-headquarters   chicago    aon center   east randolph street  chicago, il        pittsburgh      ppg place pittsburgh, pa       connect with kraft heinz:  kraftheinz.com 