     corporate social  responsibility report table of contents introduction   our approach   our businesses   setting our csr priorities & strategy   fiscal   highlights   csr oversight & accountability   stakeholder engagement & participation   charitable giving approach   world of belonging   diversity, equity & inclusion overview   people   culture   content   community   transparency & accountability   world in balance   environment & conservation overview     environmental goals   emissions   water    waste   materials   sustainable design   wildlife care & conservation   world of hope   community overview   children’s hospitals   wish granting   volunteering   stories of hope in communities around the world  investing in our people   talent management strategy   employee feedback & recognition   safety, health & well-being   talent development   comprehensive rewards package   operating responsibly   corporate governance   ethics   risk oversight   human rights   supply chain   guest safety   product safety   privacy & cybersecurity   digital wellness & responsible content   responsible advertising & marketing   journalistic integrity   tax strategy    data & reporting frameworks   overview   fiscal   data table   tcfd index   sasb index   sdg indicators   forward-looking statements   this report contains links to websites that are not operated by the walt disney company.  the website owner’s terms of use and privacy policy will apply.   table of contents our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks world in balance world of belonging introduction at the walt disney company, our mission is to  entertain, inform, and inspire people around the  globe through the power of unparalleled storytelling,  reflecting the iconic brands, creative minds, and  innovative technologies that make ours the world’s  premier entertainment company. since our founding nearly   years ago, storytelling  has fueled our company, and contributing positively  to our communities has been integral to how we  operate. this report shares our track record and ongoing  efforts to make the world better for individuals,  families, and communities through our stories,  experiences, operations, and philanthropy. we inspire a world of belonging  by embracing stories  and storytellers who reflect the life experiences of  people from across the globe. in fiscal  , we released  award-winning and critically acclaimed films and shows  that respect and celebrate different communities, such  as encanto , abbott elementary , prey, turning red ,  reservation dogs , and ms. marvel , among others. we also continue to make progress toward a workforce  reflective of the audiences and guests we serve.   this past year we continued to invest in programs   like disney’s veterans institute, disney on the yard,  women’s talent network, and black talent network,   to help attract and develop a more diverse workforce   at all levels. we also celebrated the  th anniversary   of our heroes work here program, which has resulted   in more than  ,  veterans being hired across the  company through the end of  . and we launched  disney future storytellers to increase access to   careers in media, entertainment, technology, and  hospitality. additionally, more than $  million   of our charitable giving was directed to programs  serving underrepresented communities.we encourage a world in balance  by lowering the  environmental impact of our operations and investing  in wildlife care and conservation. this past year we launched the disney wish , designed   to be among the most energy-efficient cruise ships   on the water. we also continued to reduce the  environmental impact of our productions and  received   green seals and   gold seals from   the environmental media association. in december   , we updated our emission reduction goals   to include our broader value chain and we plan   to submit our goals to the science based targets  initiative for validation. and our disney conservation   fund contributed nearly $ .  million in grants to more  than   nonprofit organizations across   countries. we support a world of hope  and deliver joy,  comfort, and peace of mind to our communities when  they’re needed most through our charitable giving,  which totaled approximately $  million in fiscal   . we have now invested more than $  million in  our $  million hospital initiative to bring the positive  power of disney stories and characters to more than    children’s hospitals and pediatric places of care  around the world. we also continue to grant thousands  of wishes annually to children facing critical illness. our success, however, is defined not by our efforts,   but by the actual good we do for the communities   we serve. true community engagement is about more  than writing a check. through our disney voluntears  program, our employees and cast members worldwide  have collectively contributed nearly   million hours   of service to their communities since the program   was started nearly   years ago.we continue to invest in our people . the underlying  character of our company comes from the hard work,  energy, and dignity of our people. investing in the  health, safety, and overall well-being of our employees;  providing opportunities for development and career  mobility; and maintaining a supportive, respectful  workplace require concrete solutions. in  , we  expanded our education investment and career  development program, disney aspire, and launched   a new virtual leadership program for senior leaders  called disney ignite. we also reported adjusted pay  ratios, which were at least  % across gender, race,  and ethnicity in the u.s. we are focused on operating responsibly    and on conducting our business in accordance with  high standards of ethics. in  , we updated our  human rights policy, enhanced our supply chain  code of conduct, and celebrated the  th anniversary  of our supply chain investment program, which  provides grant funding to support tools and programs  that improve working conditions and enhance  accountability in global supply chains. as you read this report, we hope you share our  excitement about the progress we made this past   year and the many opportunities ahead to deliver  meaningful impact from our efforts. we are excited   to celebrate our  th anniversary; create even   more magical experiences; and further serve our  employees, guests, consumers, and communities   in   and beyond.   introduction our approach world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging our approach in this section our businesses   setting our csr priorities & strategy   fiscal   highlights   csr oversight & accountability   stakeholder engagement & participation   charitable giving approach     our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging our businesses the mission of the walt disney company is to  entertain, inform, and inspire people around the   globe through the power of unparalleled storytelling,  reflecting the iconic brands, creative minds, and  innovative technologies that make ours the world’s  premier entertainment company.    our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  setting our csr priorities & strategy since the company’s founding nearly   years  ago, operating responsibly has been an integral  part of our dna.  our corporate social responsibility (csr) efforts  address the expectations of our people, consumers,  communities, and investors, and help us to attract,  retain, and develop talented and diverse creators,  cast members, and employees, all of whom  contribute to our business success. we take a  strategic approach to setting our csr priorities,  addressing issues that are important to our  businesses and to the communities where we  operate. we regularly monitor issues and evolve  our efforts to ensure we remain focused on the  economic, environmental, and societal matters   that impact those we serve.  disney strives to inspire a world of belonging   by embracing broad representation and respect  for every individual in our workplace, storytelling,  and communities; a world in balance  by taking   action to create a cleaner, safer, and healthier  world; and a world of hope  by supporting   our communities, especially children. we are   also investing in our people  and operating  responsibly . working together, side by side,   our first responsibility is to have a meaningful,  measurable, and positive impact on the people   we serve. this report details our key actions   across these focus areas and describes how we’ve  continued to implement our csr strategy across  our offerings, operations, and charitable giving  initiatives. inclusion of information in this report  should not be construed as a characterization of the  materiality or financial impact of that information. we are committed to creating a better world for the people we serve focus areas world of belonging diversity, equity & inclusion create authentic and unforgettable   stories that inspire global audiences world in balance environment & conservation help change the course of our  planet’s story, creating a healthier  home for people and wildlife world of hope community bring comfort, optimism, and   joy to our communities and inspire  hope, especially for children foundational pillars investing in our people foster a culture where employees  are inspired and empowered to  do their best work operating responsibly operate our businesses with integrity   and adopt governance policies that   reflect our stakeholders’ intereststhese topics inform our csr strategy and  practices and are addressed in this report   as well on our website:   our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  fiscal   highlights (all data points are for fiscal   unless otherwise noted) world of belonging diversity, equity & inclusion we are committed to cultivating a welcoming  and respectful workplace, creating content and  experiences that inspire our global audiences,  and collaborating with community organizations  to make our industries accessible to all.   out of   board of director  nominees at our   annual meeting are women and/or racially/ethnically diverse ~ % of our u.s. employees  were people of color ~ % of our employees worldwide  were women  , + veterans hired  through our heroes work here initiative  from   through the end of  ;  celebrated the program’s  th anniversary $ + million spent with diverse suppliers  $  million  pledged to organizations serving the  lgbtqia+ communityworld in balance environment & conservation through our   environmental goals, we  are working to reduce emissions, use and  waste less, lower the impact of our products,  build sustainably, and inspire communities  to protect the magic of nature together. scope  ,   &   emissions targets plan to submit emissions targets to the   science based targets initiative in    + megawatts of solar capacity commissioned or announced as of   fiscal    % of total company   operational waste  diverted from landfill and incineration ~$ .  million in disney   conservation fund grants supported  + nonprofits focused   on species and habitat protection environmental media   association awards two emas awarded, as well as     green seals and   gold sealsworld of hope community we support communities around the  world in ways only disney can, leveraging  the power of our stories and beloved  characters, reach of our platforms, and  employee and cast member talents. $ + million total charitable giving including $ + million directed to programs  serving underrepresented communities   , + volunteer hours  contributed by employees and cast   members through disney voluntears expanded children’s hospital   concepts and experiences  in several u.s. states, singapore, japan,   india, and eight countries across the   europe, middle east & africa region  , + toys collected through the disney ultimate toy drive   for the marine toys for tots program   + million books  donated to first book to support   under-resourced educators and children $ + million raised for unicef  via abc news coverage and on-air   mentions across our networks to support   the humanitarian crisis in ukraine  photo credit: geri kodey  see footnote   on p.  .    see footnote   on p.  .    our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  fiscal   highlights (continued) (all data points are for fiscal   unless otherwise noted) investing in our people our employees are at the heart of every one of our stories and  are the reason we can entertain, inform, and inspire people all  over the world. we are focused on investing in our peoples’  health, safety, and overall well-being; creating a supportive and  inclusive culture; and providing opportunities for growth,  development, and career mobility. ~ ,  employees  enrolled in disney aspire, our education   investment and career development program   %+ adjusted pay ratios across gender, race, and ethnicity   in the u.s. as of june     mentoring programs an increase from   programs in fiscal  ,   with overall enrollment increasing by ~ % launched disney ignite new learning experience for senior leaders,   focused on empowering them to be more confident   in leading with care and a people-first mindset ~ .  million employee learning sessions taken online or in-person through d learn,  harvard spark, harvard managementor, and  harvard leading edge—our top learning platforms first global well-being week spotlighting the wide-ranging physical, mental,   and financial benefits we offer employeesoperating responsibly we are committed to operating our businesses with integrity  and adopting governance policies that represent our  stakeholders’ interests, and we are committed to conducting  business in accordance with high standards of business ethics  and complying with applicable laws, rules, and regulations. updated human rights policy  refreshed our human rights policy and human  rights reporting on our website enhanced supply chain code of conduct  expanded and enhanced our supply chain   code of conduct $ + million contributed to our   supply chain investment program since  , and celebrated our  th anniversary  of driving improvements in working conditions ~ % of food & beverage advertising across our media platforms oriented to kids   and families met our nutrition guidelines expanded digital wellness education  with new programs in belgium, bulgaria,   kenya, nigeria, and south africa   our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  examples of recent awards & recognition world’s most admired  companies, #   fortune, february  america’s most responsible  companies, #   newsweek & statista,  december  dow jones sustainability  index north america s&p global dow jones indices,  december  ftse good global index ftse russell, august   first tier company cpa zicklin index, october  corporate equality index,  perfect score,  th  consecutive year human rights campaign  foundation, january  best places to work   for disability inclusion,    % score disability:in, august  distinguished supplier  diversity award  minority business   development agency,   september   forefront   award national minority supplier  development council,   october   environmental   media awards   nominations,   wins environmental media   association, october   green seals and     gold seals environmental media   association, october  annual sustainable   innovation award for  corporate sustainability u.s. green building council,   december   best employers: excellence   in health & well-being  business group on health,   april  corporate partner   of the year  student veterans of america,   january   national edward   r. murrow awards   for journalism radio television digital news  association, august   salute to excellence awards national association of black  journalists, august     annual safety awards  united safety council,   march  central florida diversity  champion award the national association   of minority contractors,   november  ocean champion award international fund for animal  welfare, august   glaad media awards   rd annual glaad media  awards, april     our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  csr oversight & accountability csr at disney is led by our executive vice president  (evp), corporate social responsibility, jennifer cohen,  who reports to our chief executive officer. she works in  close collaboration with our chief financial officer, chief  human resources officer, chief diversity officer, chief  compliance officer, general counsel, investor relations,  global public policy, government relations, our segment  business leaders, and their respective teams. together  they develop strategies, policies, programs, and other  initiatives to address our priorities across our offerings,  operations, and philanthropic giving. additionally, the governance and nominating committee  of the board has oversight of csr programs and reporting.  our evp of csr provides updates on csr topics to the  committee throughout the year and presents to the full  board at least annually. the board has also delegated  oversight of specific topics to certain committees. the  governance and nominating committee oversees human  rights policies and lobbying and political strategy. the  audit committee oversees cybersecurity and data security  risks and mitigation strategies. and the compensation  committee oversees workforce equity matters. this  includes compensation of the company’s executive  officers; for example, diversity has been included as a  factor in the executive bonus plan for many years, and in  fiscal  , diversity and inclusion again had the highest  weighting among nonfinancial objectives.  read more about our approach to   corporate governance: read about our compensation structure:framework alignment you will see relevant icons in various sections throughout   this report to demonstrate where our efforts align with specific   united nations sustainable development goals (sdgs)—a  collection of global goals intended to create a cleaner, safer,  and healthier future for all. and you will see the sustainability  accounting standards board (sasb) logo followed by relevant  indicators—a set of standards to guide the disclosure of  sustainability information by companies to their investors: sdg icons sasb logo read more about how our disclosures align with these  frameworks, along with an index for task force on   climate-related financial disclosures (tcfd) indicators: for an index of global reporting initiative (gri) indicators  that correspond to our disclosures, visit our website:we are committed to   operating respectfully   and responsibly in all that we do,   and having a meaningful, positive   impact on all the communities   and people we serve.  jennifer cohen   executive vice president,   corporate social  responsibility,   the walt disney company   our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  stakeholder engagement & participation learn more in our   data & reporting frameworks   we maintain relationships with the stakeholders  and communities we serve through ongoing  dialogue. we work with a variety of stakeholders  representing diverse perspectives—including  consumers, employees, industry and business  communities, nonprofit and social impact  organizations, and shareholders—as we   believe this can enhance our ability to identify  opportunities and, in some cases, solutions to  some of our most pressing challenges. we also  engage on policy issues both directly and through  industry associations on issues relevant to our  businesses. ongoing and responsive engagement  with key stakeholders continues to inform our  csr strategy, goals, and initiatives.community group examples of engagement objective of engagement consumers • consumer surveys • focus groups • fan events • social media interactions • customer service emails and calls • cause marketing campaigns our customer engagement approach helps us better understand what our consumers  expect from us. for example, it helps inform how we can utilize our unique content and  experiences to inspire millions globally to show up as a force for good in our world. employees • employee surveys and focus groups • town halls • conversations focused on topics that matter to our   employees, like inclusion and respect in the workplace • employee volunteering and giving • business unit–specific initiatives (e.g., disney studios   virtual executive coffees)through a variety of outlets, we participate in a two-way responsive dialogue where we  learn what our employees value, their levels of satisfaction as well as their concerns, and  their knowledge of and engagement with key issues at disney. for example, in   we  surveyed employees across the enterprise. learnings help to inform our ongoing work to  develop programs that support and further the employee experience. industry & business  communities• industry conferences • industry and multi-stakeholder coalitions • supplier meetings and collaborationsthrough engagement with industry leaders and suppliers, we join efforts to create  large-scale, industry-wide change, as well as to learn about trends and insights related  to our specific businesses. for example, we are active participants in multi-stakeholder  efforts to improve labor conditions in global supply chains, such as the joint forced  labor working group and the business at oecd  investment and responsible business  conduct committee. ngo s & social impact  organizations• signature social impact initiatives • campaigns (e.g., cause marketing, awareness campaigns) • multi-stakeholder coalitions • charitable giving • employee volunteering and giving • consultation on priority topics (e.g., climate change,  human rights, diversity, environmental goals)ngos and social impact organizations address challenges, both globally and locally. their  expertise and on-the-ground programs enable us to reach individuals and communities  that need us most, such as historically underrepresented communities that we aim to  serve through our disney future storytellers program. additionally, these organizations  educate us on the evolving trends regarding impact areas and/or regions. shareholders • management and board engagement • earnings calls • annual shareholder meetings • conferences and eventsmembers of management, the board, and our investor relations team have a strong program  of engagement with shareholders. for example, in calendar year  , our investor relations  team contacted more than  % of our largest   shareholders, and our investor relations  team and board held two formal rounds of shareholder engagement. this was in addition   to regular ongoing engagement throughout the year with investors of all sizes from around  the world. the feedback gathered during these conversations helps inform the board’s  thinking, including on csr practices and disclosures.   our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  charitable giving approach through financial contributions, collaboration with  nonprofit organizations, and in-kind donations,  disney brings positive, meaningful, and measurable  impact to our communities around the world. guided  by our charitable giving guidelines , we focus on  investments that align to our csr focus areas;  leverage our unique resources, skills, talents, and  expertise; and address pressing community needs.  in the past decade, we have also matched more than  $  million in employee and cast member personal  donations of money and time through disney’s  matching gifts and voluntears grants programs.  charitable giving highlights are included throughout  this report.charitable giving strategy our charitable giving is focused on three strategic pillars: world of belonging diversity, equity & inclusion grants that advance authentic representation  and increase access and opportunity in media  and entertainment world in balance environment & conservation grants that protect species and habitats  and inspire kids and families to take action  for wildlife and the planet world of hope community grants that bring comfort, optimism, and  joy to our communities and inspire hope,  especially for children we are committed to directing > % of our   annual charitable giving to programs benefiting  underrepresented communities. in fiscal  ,   ~ % of our ~$  million in total cash and in-kind  charitable contributions supported this commitment.  charitable giving that we report includes grants specifically  directed toward historically underrepresented and protected  communities, including the asian american, pacific islander,  black, hispanic, native american/indigenous, and lgbtqia+  communities, as well as people with disabilities, veterans, and  women. we also include grants to organizations where a  percentage of their services reaches underrepresented and  protected communities. if the organization spends a majority of  their efforts on these communities, we count the entire grant,  and if the organization does not spend a majority, we count a  proration of the grant. for grants to these two types of  organizations, we rely on their self-reported percentages  regarding communities served. on a sample basis, we validate  the percentages that we report.    our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  world of  belonging we inspire a world of belonging  through stories and storytellers who  reflect the rich diversity of our world. in this section overview   people   culture   content   community   transparency & accountability     world of belonging our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance diversity, equity  & inclusion overview disney is committed to celebrating an inclusive and  respectful world. we create authentic and unforgettable  stories, characters, experiences, and products that capture  the imagination of our global audiences. our workplace practices help us to make progress toward  attracting, retaining, and developing a workforce that reflects  the diverse life experiences of our audiences and guests.  disney also collaborates with community organizations to  create opportunity around the world through charitable  giving and strategic endeavors. these efforts are described  in the following sections that reflect our diversity, equity,   and inclusion (dei) focus areas:  people   culture   content   community    transparency & accountability  reimagine tomorrow endeavors to inform   employees, community organizations, and   fans about our dei commitments and actions.   learn more at our digital destination:our diversity, equity, and  inclusion team is working across  the company to inspire positive change.  by supporting the creation of content  and experiences that resonate with our  ever-expanding global audiences,  promoting diverse representation, and  collaborating with numerous nonprofit  organizations and cultural experts, we are  helping disney remain a place for  boundless creativity and belonging.  latondra newton   senior vice president,   chief diversity officer,   the walt disney company   world of belonging our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance  people sv-me- a.  learn more in our data & reporting frameworks   our intention to make progress toward a   workforce that reflects the market. we are focused on engaging, developing, and  retaining a diverse workforce and leadership team.  when our workforce reflects the diversity of our  consumers worldwide, we are able to better and  more authentically serve those consumers. attracting & developing talent   that reflects our audiences   disney takes a meaningful and measurable approach  to expanding our pipeline of talent, and we strive   to follow industry best practices, including marketing  roles on platforms that reach broad audiences;  using respectful, welcoming language in our job  descriptions; and forming inclusive panels to  interview candidates. we offer optional training   to support leaders in identifying, attracting, and engaging a multifaceted talent pool. we also work  to engage, develop, and retain a leadership team   and workforce that reflect our audiences. for example,  we promote accessible workplaces and we strive to  recruit, train, and integrate employees with disabilities  in alignment with industry best practices.  to attract and retain representative talent at the  executive level, we invest in talent development  programs like the black talent network, which launched  in  . this initiative expands exposure for black  talent across the company and helps to increase  representation in senior-level roles. participants engage  with senior leaders and create career plans to expand  their opportunities within the company, and  % of  black talent network participants said they know the  next steps to achieve their career possibilities.  in fiscal  , we launched two new cohorts of the  women’s talent network to enhance careers for asian  american & pacific islander (aapi) as well as latina  employees. one hundred participants joined the pilot  across both programs.  our individual businesses also facilitate talent  development programs. for example, disney general  entertainment continues its executive incubator  program, which works to create a pipeline of the   next generation of creative executives by providing  participants from underrepresented backgrounds with  experience in various aspects of the content business.  a few additional examples of how we are building a  robust talent pipeline are included on the next page.access featured stories on some of the  people who make our content possible: see the spotlight on our heroes work  here  initiative to hire and support veterans: learn more about talent development,  compensation, benefits, and pay equity:  % of black talent  network participants  said they know the next  steps to achieve their  career possibilities   world of belonging our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance  attracting & developing talent that reflects our audiences (continued) creating opportunities for hbcu alumni now in its second year, disney on the yard  continues  to build a community for alumni from historically  black colleges and universities (hbcus) and provide  meaningful opportunities for hbcu students who  dream of one day working in the entertainment field.  the program builds on disney’s support of hbcus  through scholarships and engagement with students,  faculty, and alumni. focused on building a robust,  long-term pipeline of black talent, in fiscal    disney on the yard launched an inaugural summer  program in which students from hbcus received  unique on-the-job experience with disney.  attracting diverse tech talent disney is working to attract wide-ranging talent to  our technology teams. we are a proud supporter  of the grace hopper celebration of women in  computing, the world’s largest gathering of women  and nonbinary people in technology. in fiscal  ,  we supported the conference, both in-person   and virtually, as a top-tier emerald sponsor with  more than   disney representatives attending.  since  , disney has also participated in  afrotech, an annual gathering of technologists  focused on celebrating black and african american  community, culture, and innovation. these  conferences, and many others, enable disney  to engage with prospective talent and share  innovations and content from across the company. breaking barriers to entry in fiscal  , disney’s lucasfilm launched the  get in the door initiative, which offers a robust  website and documentary video series showcasing  various disney career opportunities and how   to build a rewarding career in the industry. the  initiative encourages talent from underrepresented  backgrounds to explore careers in entertainment  production. it reaches a broad cross-section of  audiences, allowing them to see themselves in  these roles through a wide network of social  platforms, presentations, and recruitment avenues. developing diverse talent in animation the walt disney studios supports the professional  development initiatives of latinx in animation  (lxia), a signature program of the latino film  institute, by hosting talks to inspire artists in their  own work and facilitating networking and hiring  opportunities for lxia members. lxia is dedicated to  uniting a talented pool of diverse innovators across  the animation, visual effects, and gaming industries.  through our collaboration, talented groups of latino  creators are empowered to craft exceptional stories  across multiple platforms and help bring valuable  perspectives to our talent pipeline.   world of belonging our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance  spotlight championing veterans we are honored to champion the veteran community of the united states of america. hiring veterans at disney in  , disney celebrated the  th anniversary    of heroes work here , an innovative hiring program  that has resulted in more than  ,  veterans  being hired across the company through the end   of  , and we look forward to continuing to   grow this program.  launched in  , the program is committed to  hiring, training, and supporting u.s. military veterans  and military spouses while elevating awareness of  their significant contributions as civilian employees.  the program, which also included a supporting  comic book from marvel entertainment, quickly  surpassed its initial benchmark of providing at   least  ,  career opportunities for veterans by   —a goal that was met in less than a year.   and it continues to support individuals who have  worn the uniform who are transitioning to the  civilian workforce at disney and beyond. promoting veterans’ professional development in  , disney launched the veterans institute, a series  of no-cost events designed to help companies enhance  their recruiting, training, and development of veteran  talent. the institute provides a forum for sharing best  practices in hiring veterans and military spouses, and  promoting skills and opportunities for a successful  transition from the military to the civilian workforce.  in fiscal  , the seventh veterans institute summit ,   presented by disney institute  and wounded warrior  project, convened  + organizations and challenged  organizations and individuals to determine “what’s next”  in hiring, training, and support programs for veterans   and military spouses. learn more about our support for veterans: u.s. army reservist and walt disney world  resort cast member greg jackson is one of  thousands of employees across disney who  have proudly served in uniform.support for the u.s. armed  forces is a long-standing disney  tradition, and our heroes work here  program continues that proud legacy.  employees with military service are an  essential part of our disney family and  contribute immeasurably to our work of  telling incredible stories and making  magic. we could not be more honored to  champion u.s. military service members  in all lines of work here at disney.  cappy surette   senior manager,   external communications,  disney parks, experiences  and products; retired u.s.  navy captain; a founder  of the disney salute  veteran berg   world of belonging our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance  culture learn more in our data & reporting frameworks   our intention to put the responsibility for   an inclusive culture in the hands   of our leaders and employees   through comprehensive educational  opportunities and engagement efforts. across disney, we cultivate, value, and encourage  curiosity, collaboration, and creativity from everyone  and strive to build supportive environments that  inspire optimism and drive innovation. we work   to create a culture that is respectful and welcoming  to all, including through our business employee  resource groups (bergs) and employee affinity  groups, celebrations of heritage months, and  leadership accountability and engagement.   with the addition of a new human resources  management system, employees in select countries  and regions now have the option to indicate their  pronouns. and employees also have access to  optional dei learning programs that help foster   a culture that welcomes all, celebrate our unique  perspectives, and promote respect for one another  regardless of identity or background. employee-led groups disney supports affinity groups and more than     bergs, our voluntary, employee-led groups  formed around shared identity, interests, and pursuits.  these groups are a key component of nurturing a  sense of employee belonging, visibility, and cultural  understanding. employees can network with peers,  participate in outreach and mentoring programs,  acquire new skills, build leadership capabilities,   and develop their careers. heritage celebrations in fiscal  , we expanded our celebration of affinity  months and cultural moments. we elevated the  voices and stories of employees, talent, producers,   fans, and families around the world; engaged employee  voluntears; amplified awareness on social media;  and supported community organizations with social  impact grants. for example: • freeform’s put you on  campaign during black  history month featured black freeform employees,  talent, fans, and influencers.  • fx collaborated with the national indigenous  women’s resource center to support an awareness  week for missing and murdered indigenous   women and girls. • on international women’s day, we held an executive  speaker series on global gender equality challenges. • during asian american & pacific islander heritage  month, disney engaged experts and talent to explore  mental health stigmas and challenges in the aapi  community and shared tools and resources for self- care and allyship.  pride year-round   in fiscal  , we formed a dedicated team focused on  year-round lgbtqia+ inclusion in our workplace,  content, and community giving and engagement.  disney also pledged $  million to organizations  serving the lgbtqia+ community through support  for inclusive and respectful workplaces and authentic  representation of lgbtqia+ in media and  entertainment. in addition, disney became a human  rights campaign national corporate partner at the  platinum tier. during lgbtqia+ pride month, disney employees  participated in pride parades in   cities while our  owned television stations and hulu live-streamed  pride parades. hulu was the exclusive streaming  platform for glaad media awards and supported  glaad psas featuring the story of an lgbtqia+  teen and his family. disney+ released say it with pride   on its youtube  and facebook  channels. additionally,  the disney pride collection was created by lgbtqia+  employees and allies at the walt disney company, and  all profits from sales from the collection in june    were donated to organizations around the world that  support lgbtqia+ communities .   world of belonging our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance  content learn more in our data & reporting frameworks   across our platforms, we champion storytelling that  reflects the world around us and helps us develop  meaningful relationships with our consumers.  we strive to present genuine, authentic, and respectful  storytelling. to do so, we engage individuals, families,  and communities across the globe, and we embrace  different perspectives in our filmmaking, both in front  of and behind the camera. across the film and television industry, studios and  organizations like the british film institute and the  academy of motion picture arts and sciences have  adopted policies, practices, and standards to grow  representation and respect for all communities. in   line with evolving industry practices, we have and   are continuing to develop representation guidelines  across disney general entertainment (dge) content  and studio live-action productions. recent examples of our inclusive storytelling   (pictured to the right) walt disney animation studios’ encanto  (academy  award winner), pixar’s turning red , espn+’s exclusive  coverage of the annual department of defense  warrior games , abc and  th television’s emmy  award–winning abbott elementary ,  th century  studios’ prey, marvel studios’ eternals and ms. marvel ,   star wars’ andor , hulu originals’ this fool , onyx  collective’s the hair tales , fx’s peabody award– winning reservation dogs , and nat geo’s   life below zero: first alaskans.   encanto  turning red  warrior games  abbott elementary prey  eternals  ms. marvel  andor this fool  the hair tales  reservation dogs  life below zero photo credits: abbott elementary : abc/matt sayles. this fool : courtesy of hulu / copyright  , hulu. all rights reserved. reservation dogs : courtesy of fx  networks / copyright  , fx networks. all rights reserved. life below zero : jody potts-joseph in the winter season. (national geographic / george ilutsik).   world of belonging our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance  fostering diverse talent behind the camera supporting muslim artists  in fiscal  , we collaborated with the pillars fund   to create the pillars muslim artist database, which  contains profiles of actors, directors, cinematographers,  sound technicians, and other muslim professionals  working in the u.s. film industry. the network is  accessible to directors, producers, and casting directors  who can search the profiles and invite artists to  collaborate on their projects. creative talent pipeline program  disney’s creative talent development & inclusion  (ctdi) team connects writers, producers,   directors, and other creative talent from a   variety of backgrounds to opportunities across  dge. in fiscal  ,  % of ctdi writers and  directors program participants were staffed on  dge-scripted series. ctdi continues to provide  direct mentorship and support to talent through  events, networking opportunities, and coursework,  including the dge writing program, directing  program, and production assistant program. learn more about ctdi’s efforts: developing emerging filmmakers disney launchpad: shorts incubator  serves as an entry  point for emerging filmmakers, including writers and  directors, from underrepresented backgrounds and   with varied perspectives, with the goal of making an  original short for disney. in fiscal  , launchpad  expanded from six directors to   writers and directors  after receiving nearly  ,  applications. season   two filmmakers come from a variety of backgrounds,  including black, native american, native hawaiian,   and lgbtqia+. the program, which also expanded   to include creative executives across the company as  mentors, is on track to release six short films in  . diversity has to be on the page  before it can ever show up on the  screen. with the pairing of writers and  directors for our new season, we can’t  wait to share a new group of thought- provoking and creatively inspiring shorts  that reflect the world we live in.  phillip yaw domfeh   senior manager   and producer,   disney launchpad,   season two  authentic & accurate portrayals  disney collaborates with many leading community  organizations to guide content creators in developing  authentic stories and accurate cultural portrayals. these  organizations include cape, glaad, illuminative,  nalip, national hispanic media coalition, pillars,  respectability, and the geena davis institute on gender  in media. in addition, in fiscal   disney collaborated  with gold house to launch an industry-wide media  guide  that provides resources to support creators in  developing authentic and affirming representation of  asian & pacific islander communities.   world of belonging our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance  spotlight accessible experiences making theme parks more accessible  disney wants every guest to be able to enjoy our  experiences, and we work to adhere to accessibility  best practices and standards. our parks offer many  accessible options, starting with online information  and printed guidebooks to help guests fully experience  the magic of the parks. each park shares accessibility  information on their site-specific website.  as examples of our efforts, at walt disney world  resort, accessibility services include wheelchair/ electric conveyance vehicle access, captioning,  assistive listening, sign language interpretation, audio  description, and more. at disneyland paris, we adapt  our offerings to accommodate a range of disabilities.  we empower guests to access all attractions based on  their autonomy. we have integrated audio description  services across the resort, provide a console with  d  printed maps for visually impaired guests, introduced  sign language interpretation at select shows, offer  assistive listening devices, adapted changing areas,  adapted hotel and shuttle services, and more. we  continue to ensure that accessibility priorities are  taken into account for our guests and cast members.  and at hong kong disneyland, we teamed up with  the hong kong federation of handicapped youth   to pilot a new accessibility training program for cast  members. after completing the intensive training, cast  members are appointed “barrier-free” ambassadors. inclusive offerings & experiences  shanghai disney resort celebrated international day  of persons with disabilities (idpd) with an inspirational  surprise, its first wheelch air flash-mob dance , where  wheelchair dancers delighted guests with their moves.  additionally, since  , hong kong disneyland resort  has showcased a wheelchair dance performance with  hong kong wheelchair dance sport association to  create an inclusive cavalcade for idpd.  also, just in time to mark the  th anniversary of the  “it’s a small world” holiday  experience , the beloved  disneyland resort attraction welcomed two new dolls  in wheelchairs to better reflect the diversity of children   across the globe. from design to installation, imagineers  worked closely with resort enhancement, animation,  wardrobe, and the enabled berg that advocates for  people with disabilities. learn more about accessible experiences: wheelchair dancers gave a spirited  performance in shanghai disney resort’s first  wheelchair flash-mob dance in december  .   world of belonging our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance  spotlight accessible content accessibility on our streaming   platforms & networks we offer a range of tools and accessibility features  across our streaming services, and we are working on  improving offerings. features vary by platform and  may include tools such as audio descriptions, closed  captioning, keyboard navigation, and interoperability  with popular screen readers. we are committed to  ongoing efforts to increase the accessibility of our  content for all consumers. in addition, abc was recently honored by the american  council of the blind with an award for outstanding  achievement audio description contribution for live  events for their audio descriptions of live specials like  the oscars®. see examples of our digital   accessibility offerings:   making moviegoing more accessible  disney is exploring ways to make moviegoing more  accessible. in fiscal  , we worked with kulturecity,  a leading nonprofit focused on sensory accessibility  and acceptance, to launch sensory-inclusive movie  screenings that cater to audiences with sensory   needs such as autism. exceptional minds, a nonprofit  academy and post-production studio for people on  the autism spectrum, consulted on our strategy and  attendee experience.  together, we designed a moviegoing experience  featuring trained staff, expedited check-in, reduced  seating capacity, dimmed lighting, lowered sound,  and sensory bags with items like noise-canceling  headphones. in june  , we piloted the experience  at the el capitan theatre in los angeles, which   has committed to hosting at least one screening  respectful of audiences with sensory needs for   each new major release moving forward.    marvel studios’ first deaf super hero marvel studios’ eternals  presented an important  opportunity to include the deaf and hard of hearing  community in disney’s ongoing work to make content  more accessible. eternals ’ diverse team of heroes  features the first deaf character in the marvel  cinematic universe, played by deaf actress lauren  ridloff. we worked with exhibitors to provide on- screen captions, held an open-caption premiere   with american sign language (asl) interpreters,   and hosted screenings for organizations supporting  the deaf and hard of hearing community. exhibitors,  including amc theatres and regal cinemas,  announced their commitment to on-screen  captioning for eternals  and new movie releases  across multiple regions.    disney songs in sign language we often adapt songs into asl music videos so the  deaf and hard of hearing community can experience  popular tracks from their favorite films and franchises.  this year, the disney music group collaborated with  deaf west theatre on an asl version of we don’t talk  about bruno  from disney animation’s encanto  for  international day of sign languages. we don’t talk  about bruno  and surface pressure  were also released  in british sign language (bsl).   world of belonging our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance  community learn more in our data & reporting frameworks   our intentions to direct more than  % of our   annual charitable giving to programs  serving underrepresented communities    and to spend at least $  billion annually   with diverse suppliers by  .   in fiscal  , more than $  million (~ %) of our  charitable giving was directed to programs that support  asian american and pacific islander, black and african  american, hispanic and latino, native american and  indigenous, and multicultural communities, as well as  women, veterans, people with disabilities, and lgbtqia+  individuals.  through impactful collabor  ations and strategic  community investments, we are helping to advance  authentic representation in media and entertainment (e.g.,  the pillars muslim artist database); drive economic  opportunity, access, and equity in the business communities  in which we operate (e.g., out & equal, respectability);  create inclusive and respectful entertainment experiences  (e.g., sensory-accessible movie screenings with exceptional  minds); and empower future generations of storytellers  and innovators (e.g., ghetto film school, hispanic  scholarship fund, asian pacific islander american scholars,  american indian college fund). in fiscal  , we  launched the disney future storytellers initiative,  described in the spotlight on the next page.disney employees paint a  mural that honors lgbtqia+  history and culture in east los  angeles with rainbow labs.$ m+ charitable giving directed  to programs supporting  underrepresented communities  access additional information   on our philanthropy:   see footnote   on p.  .   see footnote   on p.  .    world of belonging our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance  spotlight empowering the next generation through disney future storytellers in fiscal  , we launched disney future  storytellers, disney’s commitment to empowering  the next generation of storytellers and innovators.  from charitable grants and programs that provide  inspiration and hands-on experience in arts and  science, technology, engineering, and math (stem)  education for school-age children, to scholarships,  mentoring, and creative and technical skill-building  for teens and young adults, disney is increasing  access to careers in the media, entertainment,  technology, and hospitality industries for youth,  especially for individuals from historically  underrepresented or underserved communities. it all starts with inspiring today’s youth to dream   about their future by sparking an interest in  storytelling and technology. from there, we invest  in programs that help them build  the skills they  need to turn their dreams into reality. finally, we  help young adults become  who they imagine they  can be by removing barriers and expanding access  to professional training and networks with early  career opportunities and financial support. we want all youth to have access to rewarding  opportunities in our industries. it is important   to our future success to have a workforce that is  representative and respectful of all communities  so that we can create successful content and  products reflecting our wide-ranging audiences.dream sparking interest in storytelling and   technology, inspiring the next generation   to dream about their possibilities disney musicals in schools disney musicals in schools, which builds  sustainable arts programs in under-resourced  public schools, was rebooted in   markets  following the pandemic. through the  program, elementary school students and  teachers join professional artists to produce  their very own disney kids musical on  stage. research conducted by search  institute discovered that the program  nurtures developmental relationships, with  children finding a platform for connection,  collaboration, and creative expression. build supporting essential training and development programs to help youth build their talents and skills new initiatives in japan and korea  in japan, disney collaborated with junior  achievement and sponsored our first-ever   program for middle school students in provincial  areas. students created characters and stories,   and local disney producers served as mentors   to guide the students. in korea, in alignment with the disney+ launch   in november  , we expanded programs   that invest in young creators. programs support  underprivileged children as well as teens that  attend special-purpose schools, such as animation  high schools. providing opportunities in coding  in fiscal  , disney began working with  chicktech, an organization committed to bringing  gender equity to technology. we are supporting  chicktech’s high school program, which includes   a free, yearlong series of technology workshops,  mentoring, and internship connections for eighth   to  th grade students. our support includes grant  funding for the program; mentorship, networking,  and event opportunities; and the development of   a technical workshop with disney technologists.   search institute   world of belonging our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance  spotlight empowering the next generation through disney future storytellers (continued) photo credit: disney/heidi gutmanbecome expanding access to our industries and empowering young adults to become who they imagine they can be nurturing rising black talent in fiscal  , disney joined the propel center ,   a first-of-its-kind education hub for hbcus, as the  organization’s arts, media, entertainment, and  hospitality lead sponsor. we also created the   disney storytellers fund at howard university  and  florida a&m university to generate opportunities   for historically underrepresented students in media  and entertainment. additionally, we continued our  long-standing work with united negro college fund  (uncf) and announced the   disney uncf  corporate scholars . scholars receive a $ ,  annual  scholarship, a paid summer intern ship at disney,  mentorship opportunities, and assistance with securing  possible full-time roles with disney upon graduation. developing future talent in europe in the uk, we strengthened local collaborations   with education, community, and industry nonprofits.  organizations included mama youth project, the  london screen academy, stage one, artistry youth  dance, and the thea barnes legacy fund, among  others. in fiscal  , marvel entered the second   year of a three-year collaboration with the prince’s  trust , which offers training and mentorship for young  people in the field of product design, and released  the “women of marvel: stronger together” collection,  featuring clothing, bags, and more. advancing a neurodiverse talent pipeline we made a $  million contribution to exceptional  minds in fiscal   to help source, skill, scale,  support, and sustain neurodiverse talent over   the next three years. our funds will be used for  scholarships, academy faculty, career support  services, and facilities and technology. many of   the program’s graduates are offered full-time  employment at disney, marvel, and other studios. providing a behind-the-scenes view  disney mentors are working with students   in the anaheim union high school district  through anaheim’s innovative mentoring  experience. as part of an ongoing workforce  development initiative, disneyland resort   has been a key supporter of the program since    , providing funding and mentorship,  including a behind-the-scenes look at how  business is conducted with a bit of disney magic.   world of belonging our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance  supplier diversity we believe that including diverse suppliers in our  sourcing process provides a meaningful opportunity  to seek innovative, high-quality, and cost-effective  business solutions, while also supporting communities.  last year, we set a goal to spend at least $  billion  annually with diverse suppliers by  . reaching this  goal would place disney among the top u.s. companies  that are spending with diverse suppliers and would  impact the communities where we do business by  creating jobs and opportunities. in fiscal  , we  spent more than $  million with diverse suppliers,  an increase of almost  % compared to fiscal  .  throughout fiscal  , the supplier diversity team  worked closely with internal analytics groups to  develop a dashboard that guides business unit leaders  in their supplier diversity benchmarks. internal leaders  can access the dashboard to review their teams’  progress toward our diverse spending goal. this and  other initiatives influenced the significant increase in  diverse spending in fiscal  . in fiscal  , we also  expanded our diversity classifications to include u.s.  military spouse–owned businesses. collaborating for change we collaborate with supplier diversity–focused  organizations at the national, regional, and local  levels, as well as business development organizations,  advocacy groups, and trade show organizers. in fiscal    , our supplier diversity and disney parks,  experiences and products (dpep) teams sponsored   the russell innovation center for entrepreneurs  (rice) supply chain accelerator pilot that helped  black entrepreneurs do business with industry leaders,  large corporations, and government agencies. the  pilot included   growth-stage companies— %   of which were women-owned—and began with a  comprehensive gap assessment to understand needs  and drive a detailed action plan. supporting industry diversity our supplier diversity team also began working   with the supplier diversity action committee, an  internal coalition of television marketing executives  who advocate for agencies run by people of color,  women, lgbtqia+ individuals, veterans, people with  disabilities, and others in the agency selection  process. dge led a committee that identified and  created a database of more than  ,  vendors to  open doors to diverse businesses in the production  and post-production categories. diverse entrepreneurs participated in  sessions on storytelling, customer service,  and supplier diversity at walt disney world  resort as part of the company’s support  for the russell innovation center for  entrepreneurs supply chain accelerator.  supplier diversity data include tier   spend with firms that   have obtained certification from a third-party agency as being  at least  % owned, controlled, and operated by a minority,  woman, disabled person, veteran, service-disabled veteran,  veteran spouse, or lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender person.  we validate diverse status through certification compliance  using wbenc, nmsdc, department of veterans affairs,  nglcc, and disability:in.    world of belonging our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance  supplier diversity (continued) championing u.s. veteran– and veteran  spouse–owned businesses we continue to expand our commitment to the  individuals who have worn the uniform and have   served the united states of america. our efforts   for u.s. veterans and their families extend beyond   our heroes work here program with our heroes   supply here endeavor. through this program, we  support businesses that are owned by veterans,  including service-disabled veterans, as well as u.s.  military spouses. we’re committed to helping these  communities earn the financial security they want,  need, and deserve. by focusing our supplier efforts on  work with veteran entrepreneurs and business owners,  disney has increased company-wide spending with   u.s. veteran– and veteran spouse–owned businesses   to approximately $ .  million in  . learn more about our support for veterans:providing opportunities for women in  , disney participated in panel discussions  and business workshops in new orleans that  were hosted by minority business development  groups, including women’s business enterprise  council (wbec) south and the u.s. department  of commerce’s minority business development  agency. disney also sponsored and provided  executive support for wbec’s national black  business pitch, an event dedicated to discovering,  promoting, and investing in black business talent. access additional information   on supplier diversity:u.s. air force thunderbirds air  demonstration team flies over cinderella  castle at magic kingdom park at walt  disney world resort in lake buena vista,  florida, october  ,  , as a prelude to  the beginning of national veterans and  military families month in november.   world of belonging our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance  transparency & accountability sv-me- a. ; tc-im- a. ; sv-hl- a.   learn more in our data & reporting frameworks   transparency and accountability are an important part  of our efforts. in fiscal  , we increased disclosure  of meaningful metrics by releasing a new pay ratio  disclosure dashboard, and we continued to share data  on representation of women and people of color in our  workforce and in front of and behind the camera. our    workforce diversity dashboard ,   content  representation dashboard ,   eeo-  report , and our  adjusted pay ratio disclosure  are available online, and  we intend to continue publishing these reports annually.  access additional dei data: fiscal     employee diversity ~ % of our u.s. employees  were people of color ~ % of our employees  worldwide were womenour senior vice president and chief diversity  officer, latondra newton, leads the company’s  strategic dei initiatives in partnership with  businesses and leaders across the company.   the ceo diversity, equity, and inclusion council  is accountable for establishing and advancing  dei efforts and outcomes. and the creative  inclusion council unites leaders from our creative  teams to identify and scale practices that foster  inclusion and respect in the creative process and  deliver authentic and meaningful stories to our  audiences around the world.  all u.s.-based employees are covered by our   equal employment opportunity policy, prohibition  of harassment policy, and our speak up policy,  which encourages employees who observe or  suspect misconduct to speak up to provide the  company with the opportunity to address the   issue. employees outside the u.s. are covered   by policies reflecting these principles but tailored   to their specific region.   world of belonging our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance  world in  balance we come together to help change the  course of our planet’s story, creating a  cleaner, safer, and healthier world for  people and wildlife. in this section overview     environmental goals   emissions   water   waste   materials   sustainable design   wildlife care & conservation     world in balance our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world of belonging environment & conservation overview disney is committed to taking meaningful and  measurable action to support a healthier planet for  future generations as we operate and grow our  businesses. we are focused on putting possibility into  practice and inspiring optimism for a brighter, cleaner,  and healthier future—a unified commitment we call  disney planet possible .  our commitment to environmental sustainability  goes back to our founding nearly   years ago.   as walt disney himself said, “conservation isn’t   just the business of a few people, it’s a matter that  concerns all of us.” our environmental commitments,  summarized in this report and detailed in our    env ironmental goals white paper , represent  some of the ways we are focused on helping to build  on that legacy for communities around the globe,  generation after generation.    environmental goals in december   and december  , we  established a set of environmental goals that aim to  reduce greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions; help protect  local watersheds; minimize waste; create products and  packaging with environmentally preferable materials;  and design and construct our buildings and  attractions sustainably.  see more information about our environmental  goals and how we plan to achieve them:environmental action   through collaboration learn more in our   data & reporting frameworks   we are a member of several initiatives and  organizations, which we engage with regularly to  support actions consistent with the paris climate  agreement and other environmental, climate, and  conservation ambitions. these groups include: • association of zoos and aquariums  • business alliance to scale climate solutions • bsr • business roundtable  • ceres company network • clean energy buyers association • climate solutions working group • conservation measures partnership • cruise lines international association  • dimpact • international union for conservation of nature • sustainable apparel coalition • sustainable aviation buyers alliance • sustainable production alliance • textile exchange • the chamber of commerce climate task force  • the world resources institute’s corporate  consultative group and aqueduct alliance • u.s. green building council® • world association of zoos and aquariums   world in balance our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world of belonging  emissions tr-cl- a.  learn more in our data & reporting frameworks     emissions goals reduce absolute emissions from   direct operations (scope   &  )   by  . % against a     baseline achieve net zero emissions   for direct operations  reduce scope   emissions in line   with a “well below  °c” scenario purchase or produce  %   zero carbon electricity invest in natural climate solutionsin alignment with our net zero emissions goal set in   , as well as the paris climate agreement, we  announced in december   that we are setting a  science-based target for all our emissions—scopes    and   in our direct operations, as well as scope   in  our broader value chain. we plan to submit this  target to the science based targets initiative (sbti)  for assessment.  our strategy for achieving net zero for scope   and    emissions by   is based on the following fact- based reduction hierarchy:   .  designing our built environment to reduce   or avoid emissions  .  reducing emissions through fuel and   energy efficiency  .  replacing high-carbon energy sources with   lower-carbon alternatives  .  investing in certified natural climate solutionslike most companies setting aspirational scope    targets, these are challenging goals, and success  depends on several external factors, including  actions by our suppliers to reduce their emissions,  global economy-wide transitions to cleaner fuels,  availability of economically feasible solutions at  scale, and consumer behavioral changes. industry  collaboration is key to addressing some of these  challenges. see previous page for some of the  organizations we engage with regularly. we follow the global frameworks   established by the ghg protocol to   measure scope  ,   &   ghgs: see more information about our   environmental efforts: access emissions data:   we define “net emissions” and “net zero emissions” for our    goals as follows: “net emissions” = scope   emissions +  scope   emissions (market-based) – carbon credits. scope    emissions (market-based) include emission reductions  attributed to utility green power purchases, power purchase  agreements, and unbundled energy attribute certificates (eacs).  our approach to carbon credits can be found in our natural  climate solutions white paper . we will have achieved our    “net zero emissions” goal when “net emissions” as   defined above equals  .    world in balance our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world of belonging  progressing toward net zero ghg emissions for direct operations  we are working to reduce our emissions by identifying ways to improve efficiency, reduce energy use, and use alternative low-carbon fuels. reducing emissions from productions our film and television productions are working to  reduce emissions by replacing the diesel generators  traditionally used to power sets and instead tying into  the grid while on location or using battery electric,  hybrid (diesel plus battery), and green hydrogen fuel  cell generators. for example, in  , battery electric  generators, which were recharged by solar panels,  provided power for several weeks while filming on a  beach, and grid ties replaced diesel generators on  backlots in london, vancouver, and los angeles.  energy-efficient upgrades at theme parks we continue to make energy-efficient upgrades at  our theme parks and resorts. for example, shanghai  disney resort installed a new water pump in the  pirates of the caribbean attraction and added timing  controls to outdoor fountains. together, we expect   to see approximately  ,  kilowatt-hours in  electricity savings annually. and hong kong  disneyland completed the installation of smart air  conditioner occupancy sensors in guest rooms. this  energy-saving feature is now in use in all three hotels. using lower-carbon fuels the disney wish  set sail in fiscal   and was  designed to be among the most energy-efficient  cruise ships on the water. the disney wish  was  primarily powered by liquified natural gas in fiscal   , which, when compared to traditional diesel or  marine fuel, significantly reduces several emissions  and pollutants. natural climate solutions we also invest in high-quality, verified, and rigorously  vetted natural climate solutions that generate  meaningful carbon reductions as well as positive  social and economic impacts. these projects help us  address emissions from our direct operations that  we cannot avoid. for example, our investment with  proyecto mirador provides fuel-efficient, wood- burning cookstoves to families in rural honduras  and guatemala. access emissions data:   see footnote   on p.  .   world in balance our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world of belonging  accelerating disney’s renewable   energy portfolio disney is committed to purchasing or producing   % zero carbon electricity for all direct operations  globally by  . we continue to research, invest  in, and develop renewable electricity projects across  our global portfolio. as of fiscal  , we have  commissioned or announced more than    megawatts of solar capacity. examples include: • in collaboration with the utility serving walt disney  world resort, two  -megawatt solar facilities are  expected to come online and are projected to bring  the resort’s renewable energy consumption up to  nearly  % of its annual total power use. • disneyland paris is continuing the construction   of approximately   acres of solar canopies,   which will provide shade and shelter to more than   ,  parking spaces and are estimated to generate  approximately   gigawatt hours of electricity   once fully operational. • hong kong disneyland has embarked on the  next phase of one of the largest solar panel sites  in hong kong, installed at   different attractions  and buildings.  • select operations subscribe to high-credibility green  power programs that advance the decarbonization  of disney and our local communities. for example,  pixar is subscribed to  % renewable electricity  through east bay community energy. mickey-shaped solar facility (located  near epcot), which provides power to  walt disney world resort, was built  in collaboration with reedy creek  improvement district and duke energy.solar capacity  +   mw solar capacity  commissioned or  announced as   of fiscal     world in balance our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world of belonging  water learn more in our data & reporting frameworks     water goals implement localized watershed   stewardship strategies source sustainable seafood  disney recognizes that water is essential for ecosystems  and vital for communities and our operations around  the world. water is a shared resource, and we know  that the company’s operations have an impact on  local watershed conditions as well as on the health   of our oceans. in keeping with the latest data   and standards, our strategy reflects that water is a   highly local issue, with individualized considerations   in each geography. see more information about our water   conservation efforts: access water data: water conservation in  , we continued to implement site-specific  water conservation strategies at our theme parks  and resorts. for example, we are using artificial turf  and are implementing a sophisticated irrigation  control system at disneyland resort as part of  drought-fighting efforts. and disneyland paris is in the  process of retrofitting the showerheads in two hotels  with new led-lit technology heads that allow guests to  adjust their use to help conserve water. the turbine- powered led lights change color based on the  amount of water used, moving from blue to green,  yellow, and eventually red when water use exceeds a  certain volume. in a pilot, the new showerheads  reduced water use by an average of  % per room.  watershed investments we are identifying critical regional water issues and  are continuing to collaborate with local stakeholders,  such as industry and nonprofit organizations, to  safeguard the overall health of watersheds as a multi- use sustainable resource. for example, we support  wwf-hong kong’s project to foster innovative  approaches, such as the use of water buffalo, to  conserve wetlands in the shui hau watershed and  increase water security for local people and wildlife.  we also support the nature conservancy’s work in  central florida, including efforts to address growing  freshwater demands, enhance water quality, improve  water supply, and reduce flood risks through green  stormwater infrastructure. sustainable seafood responsible selection and sourcing of seafood is  important to our business, to the livelihoods of   the fishing industry worldwide, and to the health   of the planet for future generations. in fiscal  ,  our u.s. parks, resorts, and cruise line sourced nearly   % sustainable seafood.  fisheries are periodically  evaluated for sustainability, and ratings for specific  species do sometimes fluctuate. this affects our  ability to source consistently to our ambitious  %   target. nonetheless, our commitment to our  %   sustainably sourced seafood goal remains, and we  continue to collaborate with the sustainable fisheries  partnership in their work across the supply chain   to improve fishing and aquaculture and advance  sustainable seafood production. photo credit: wwf-hong kong   disney’s definition of sustainable seafood can be found in our    environmental goals white paper . the breakdown of  sustainable seafood in fiscal   was:  % best choice,  %  eco-certified,  % good alternative, < % avoid,  % fishery  improvement projects (fip), and < % unrated.   world in balance our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world of belonging  waste learn more in our data & reporting frameworks     waste goals achieve zero waste to landfill for   wholly owned and operated parks,   resorts, and cruise line  reduce single-use plastics in   parks and resorts eliminate single-use plastics on   cruise ships by   see more information on our waste reduction  strategies, including plastics reduction:the growing amount of waste produced today  poses a threat to our environment and ecosystems,  and to communities around the world. disney is  committed to working to achieve zero waste to  landfill for our wholly owned and operated parks,  resorts, and cruise line by  .  our long-term waste management plan includes  permanently reducing waste on our properties,  including food waste; reusing products and  materials; being deliberate about material  sourcing; maximizing recycling; reducing single- use and other plastics; and focusing on education  efforts with our guests and employees.  minimizing waste  % of total company  operational waste  diverted from landfill   and incineration   in fiscal      zero waste to landfill is defined as  % operational   waste diversion, including thermal waste-to-energy for   walt disney world, disneyland resort, disneyland paris,   and disney cruise line.   world in balance our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world of belonging  costumes from recycled materials our parks, hotels, and cruise businesses are  integrating recycled content fiber into their cast  and crew member costumes. for example, costumes  and set pieces in the little mermaid  theatrical  production aboard the disney wish  ship are made  from recycled plastic, with more than  % of the  fabric used in the production made from recycled  materials. the fabrics were also uniquely dyed   using a waterless printing method, saving water  compared to traditional dyeing processes. back   on land, the cast members at the newly opened  guardians of the galaxy: cosmic rewind  attraction  at epcot are donning uniforms designed and  created from sustainable features— % of each  uniform’s base fabric is made from recycled content.reducing waste on productions marvel studios’ moon knight  series created a pop-up  “waste garden” where recyclables and other waste   were collected and sorted by a local company that  provides training and jobs to people transitioning   out of homelessness. at the studio where moon   knight  was filmed, we plan to set up waste gardens   for future films. in addition, prom pact , a disney+  original movie, introduced refillable water stations,  saving the equivalent of more than  ,  single-use  plastic bottles of water during production. as we evolve  our covid-  health and safety practices in line with  local, regional, and federal guidelines, eliminating  single-use plastic water bottles through refillable water  stations will once again be a focus for our studios.  costumes and set pieces in the  little mermaid theatrical production  aboard the disney wish  ship are  made from recycled materials.     world in balance our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world of belonging  reducing food waste our approach to reducing food waste begins with  menu planning to predict how many meals we will  serve in a given day in order to prevent food waste  before it begins. when there is unused food, we  donate it to support local communities whenever  feasible. we also utilize composting and biodigestion,  and convert food waste into animal feed where  possible. for instance, we have composting pilots   at several restaurants, and vero beach resort and  castaway cay have installed biodigesters to manage  inedible food waste.  reducing single-use plastics  we are committed to reducing single-use plastics   in our parks and resorts, and eliminating single-use  plastics on our cruise ships. for example, in fiscal    , hong kong disneyland replaced plastic,  disposable food service ware items, including to-go  containers and cutlery, with wood alternatives and  reusable melamine. disney cruise line has been  working to eliminate single-use plastic categories   and intends to be free of single-use plastics by  .  examples include introducing alternatives to plastic  merchandise bags and guest laundry bags, disposable  cutlery, cold beverage lids, and even plastic drink  garnish sticks. in addition, to encourage the use of  reusable water bottles, refill stations have been  installed on all ships and castaway cay. from glass to groundcover as we explore options for the responsible disposal of  glass from walt disney world resort, we are piloting  the use of a machine that pulverizes glass into gravel  and sand-like pieces. this material can be used across  the property in areas such as roadbeds, golf course  bunkers, filtration systems, sandbags, and drainage.   world in balance our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world of belonging  materials learn more in our data & reporting frameworks     materials goals for   disney-branded products use recycled, certified, or verified  sustainable paper and wood use plastic that contains at least    % recycled content or a   lower-impact alternative material design packaging for reuse,   recycling, or composting use recycled, sustainably sourced,   or lower-impact alternative textiles ensure all facilities participate in the  higg index or maintain a sustainable  manufacturing certification see full description of our materials goals:to reduce environmental impacts across our consumer  products portfolio, we identified a set of materials that  are consistently used in high volumes and/or are known  to have significant environmental impacts associated  with their production and/or use. such materials include  paper, wood, and palm oil from forest products, as well  as textiles and plastics. our materials goals focus on  reducing the environmental impacts of these materials  while also helping our manufacturing network to become  cleaner and safer as a whole. our cross-functional consumer products task force  works to advance our materials goals and produce  comprehensive training resources to help our global  teams and external collaborators understand how to  help achieve our   goals. to measure progress on  our goals, we are building new tracking systems that   will allow us to report on select quantitative measures.  in the interim, we will continue to provide qualitative  updates on our progress. unique upcycled accessories disneyland paris offered guests limited-edition tote  bags, duffel bags, briefcases, and pouches for purchase,  which were made from a recycled tarp that previously  covered sleeping beauty castle  during renovation work.  disney worked with a french-based smb (small- to  medium-sized business) that specializes in the upcycling  of materials to create these unique goods.limited-edition tote bags, duffel bags,  briefcases, and pouches were made  from a recycled tarp that previously  covered sleeping beauty castle.   world in balance our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world of belonging  sustainable design learn more in our data & reporting frameworks     sustainable   design goals design new projects to achieve   near net zero ghg emissions,    maximize water efficiencies, and   support zero waste operations  achieve  % diversion of   construction waste across new   projects in the u.s. and europe learn more about our goals for new projects  across emissions, water, and waste:designing, building, and operating to avoid or reduce  emissions, water, and waste have been core parts of  disney’s sustainable design strategy. for new projects, we are integrating sustainability  throughout the design process, promoting a culture   of continuous improvement, and exploring innovative  solutions. in collaboration with our various design teams  across disney, and leveraging the creative expertise   of our disney imagineers, we follow a rigorous set of  internal sustainable design standards aligned with   our   goals. this work is critical to helping us  achieve our emissions goals since our built environment,  ranging from theme parks to offices, accounts for the  majority of our scope   and   emissions. our approach  to sustainable design also helps contribute to cleaner   air, more efficient use of water, and less waste for the  communities in which we operate. one example from our disney parks, experiences and  products segment (dpep) is lighthouse point in the  bahamas—the newest addition to disney cruise line’s  island destinations—expected to welcome visitors   in  . only  % of the site will be developed and  much of it for low-density uses like the placement   of beach chairs and umbrellas. the areas that will be  developed will incorporate numerous design features  to reduce environmental impacts, such as elevated  walkways and structures to reduce disturbing the land.  we are also designing to support zero waste to landfill  as we explore innovative waste sorting and disposal  technologies. we expect  % of the energy demand  to be met from renewable sources when it opens and  for the site to be fully powered by renewable energy  by  . in addition, we are developing a multi- faceted program to educate employees, vendors, and  guests about the role they play in protecting the site.concept art for disney’s lighthouse  point in the bahamas. disney is  working closely with bahamian artists  and advisors to create a destination  that represents the natural beauty and  rich culture of the bahamas.   see footnote   on p.  .    see footnote   on p.  . artist concept only ©  disney    world in balance our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world of belonging  spotlight stories & experiences inspire connections with the world we share learn more in our   data & reporting frameworks   through national geographic, disneynature, and   our other content platforms, disney enjoys a rich   and growing library of programming that connects  audiences with the wonders of our natural world and  inspires action to create a cleaner, safer, and healthier  planet. in  , our broad portfolio of nature-focused  stories included disneynature’s polar bear  and national  geographic’s explorer: the last tepui , secrets of the  whales,  and the biggest little farm: the return .  the environmental media association (ema) awards   honor films and shows that increase public awareness  of climate change, sustainability, and other environ- mental topics in their storylines. in  , we won   two ema awards and received   green seals and    gold seals from ema recognizing our efforts to  reduce the environmental impact of production.   nominations,   wins   green seals and   gold seals environmental media association awards,  giving back through national geographic national geographic has been actively caring about  our planet for well over a century. today, national  geographic partners—a joint venture between   the walt disney company and nonprofit national  geographic society—continues this legacy. we  return  % of the net proceeds from our national  geographic lines of business to fund conservation,  education, and sustainability projects.  national geographic partners aims to unite, inspire,  and support the global travel community, with the  brightest and best minds in scientific, travel, and  cultural exploration, sharing groundbreaking, highly  visual storytelling. protecting wildlife we have a strong track record of protecting wildlife.  for example, with the release of disneynature’s  polar bear  in  , the disney conservation fund  (dcf) is supporting polar bear conservation with  nonprofit organization polar bears international.  disney’s grant will support research of promising  aerial radar detection to identify hidden polar bear  dens and help protect mothers and cubs; help to  reduce possible human–bear conflicts to keep  both bears and people safe in the arctic; and aid  the preservation of polar bears’ habitats.   world in balance our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world of belonging  spotlightspotlight stories & experiences inspire connections with the world we share (continued)   covering climate news  abc news has a dedicated climate unit. in fiscal   , the unit highlighted people and organizations  making an impact in hidden climate heroes  and took  an in-depth look at the causes and risks of climate  change in a monthlong series, climate crisis: saving  tomorrow . the unit also teamed up with teen vogue   to explore teenagers’ growing concerns about climate  change and the effects on their mental health. earth month celebrations earth month kicked off with a conversation between  dpep chairman josh d’amaro and the legendary  ethnologist and conservationist dr. jane goodall.   dcf made a gift to support the work of dr. goodall’s  roots & shoots, a program that supports young  people working to effect positive change for the  planet, starting in their local communities.national geographic india launched the year-round  one for change effort on earth day to spotlight  change makers across india working to restore and  preserve the environment. and national geographic  latin america released a new edition of its lo que  haces cuenta (“what you do counts”) campaign  during climate change day.   world in balance our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world of belonging  wildlife care & conservation learn more in our data & reporting frameworks   the disney conservation fund  was created more than     years ago to build on walt disney’s legacy of saving  wildlife, inspiring action, and helping to protect the  planet. dcf philanthropic grants have helped bring  wildlife like california condors, green sea turtles, and  atala butterflies back from the brink of extinction; plant  millions of trees in critical forests; remove tons of debris  from the ocean; advance conservation education for  youth; and more.  disney conservation fund has invested more than   $  million, along with the expertise of dedicated  teams, in community-led biodiversity conservation  efforts since   to help protect more than    ,  species of wildlife and safeguard more than     million acres of habitat—an area equal to more   than  ,  walt disney world resorts.  in fiscal  , the dcf made nearly $ .  million   in grants, supporting more than   nonprofit  organizations working across   countries. the dcf   also honored   disney conservation heroes—an  award recognizing indigenous and local people  dedicated to promoting a world where people, plants,  and animals all have a thriving place to call home. learn more about our disney conservation  efforts online:the disney conservation fund supported  arizona state university’s efforts to work  with baja fisher communities to reduce  the accidental catch of endangered sea  turtles, sharks, and rays.disney conservation fund  efforts since   $ m+ invested in dcf to date  , + species of   wildlife protected  m+ acres of   habitat safeguarded   world in balance our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world of belonging  coral reef restoration we continue to collaborate with a diverse group of  coral reef management and conservation leaders to  bring hope to the largest coral reef in the continental  united states, the florida reef tract.  disney  conservation team wildlife has provided leadership  and expertise to support the orlando-based florida  coral rescue center. this state-of-the-art facility was  established for gene banking and care of florida  corals rescued from reefs not yet affected by stony  coral tissue loss disease, which has put   coral  species at risk of extinction. the center is the largest  facility of its kind in the united states and is part of  a national network coordinated by the association of  zoos and aquariums to support breeding programs  and efforts to return coral back to the ocean. in april   , the first reported spawning of rough cactus  coral in human care took place at the center. local wildlife conservation disney conservation team wildlife includes cast  members working to inspire conservation actions  and collaborating globally to share expertise and  drive programs to positively impact wildlife and  habitats. at walt disney world resort, team  wildlife monitors species diversity in our  , +  acre wildlife management conservation area to  support statewide efforts to help preserve and  connect key habitats. nearby at the headwaters of  the everglades, we have also supported protection  and restoration efforts at the nature conservancy’s  disney wilderness preserve. the preserve spans   ,  acres of restored wetland and upland habitats  and is home to many native plants and animals,  including threatened and endangered species like  gopher tortoises and red-cockaded woodpeckers. rescuing & rehabilitating elephants our disney team based in india began supporting  wildlife sos’s efforts in   and continued support  throughout   to rescue and rehabilitate elephants  illegally taken from the wild. to date, more than    elephants have been given care and medical  treatment at wildlife sos’s elephant hospital and  elephant conservation and care centre, established in    and the first center of its kind in northern india.  sea turtle conservation as part of the $  million we have invested since     to help sea turtle conservation efforts globally,   in  , the dcf supported a new mentorship   and career training program hosted by the sea   turtle conservancy to spark passion for sea turtle  conservation among central florida youth from  diverse and underserved communities. students  attended the   tour de turtles event at disney’s  vero beach resort , an annual event that helps  researchers, conservationists, and government  agencies gather satellite transmitter data from  migrating sea turtles to make more informed  decisions about conservation methods and policies.   in fiscal  , our sea turtle efforts reached an  important milestone: disney conservation team  wildlife celebrated  .  million sea turtles hatched  from nests monitored by our team at disney’s vero  beach resort since  .   this effort is led by the association of zoos & aquariums with  involvement from disney conservation, the fish & wildlife  foundation of florida, the florida fish and wildlife  conservation commission, noaa fisheries, and seaworld.   world in balance our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world of belonging  excellence in animal care disney’s animals, science and environment team  leads the company’s efforts to care for animals and  the environment, connect people to nature, and  conserve our natural resources. white rhinos born at walt disney world resort  at disney’s animal kingdom theme park, we  celebrated the birth of the  th white rhino born at  walt disney world resort—an important milestone  made possible by the dedication and care of disney  scientists, veterinarians, and keepers. each birth has  been part of the species survival plan for white  rhinos, overseen by the association of zoos and  aquariums to help promote responsible breeding of  endangered species in managed care. these rhinos  help us learn more about this near-threatened  species, share learnings with other institutions, and  offer guests an opportunity to connect with incredible  animals in person. celebrating gino’s  st birthday  in december  , disney’s animal kingdom  celebrated the  st birthday of gino, the oldest  western-lowland gorilla at walt disney world  resort. gino is a favorite of many guests and  something of an icon in the zoological community.  due to the trusted relationship he has developed  with disney’s animal care team and his laid-back  attitude, gino has helped his keepers develop  important techniques to care for gorillas in  managed settings that have been modeled by  other zoological institutions. he is one of the first  gorillas in the world to allow his caretakers to  perform cardiac ultrasounds without anesthesia, an  important step in the advancement of care for his  species, and more broadly for animal care and  gorilla conservation globally. disney’s animal kingdom celebrated  the birth of the  th white rhino  born at walt disney world resort.   world in balance our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world of belonging  world of hope we are committed to bringing  joy, comfort, and peace of mind  to our communities and inspiring  hope, especially for children. in this section overview   children’s hospitals   wish granting   volunteering   stories of hope in communities   around the world     world of hope our approach introduction investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging community overview having a positive impact on the world as we grow  our businesses has been a part of our company  since its founding. we place particular focus on  areas where we are uniquely positioned to make  a meaningful, measurable impact. through our  support of children’s hospitals and wish granting,  as well as the contributions of thousands of  passionate employee volunteers around the  world, we deliver joy when it’s needed most.at walt disney imagineering,   we make the impossible possible.  we combine innovation and storytelling  to bring disney stories, characters, and  worlds to life. helping to reimagine   the patient experience in children’s  hospitals to include disney magic has  delivered joy when it’s needed most to  so many kids and families all over the  world—one of the most rewarding  experiences of my career.  josh shaver-moskowitz   producer, walt disney  imagineering   world of hope our approach introduction investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  children’s hospitals since walt disney himself first brought animators  to visit hospitalized children, disney stories have  uplifted young people facing serious illness. in   , disney announced a global commitment   of $  million to help reimagine the patient  experience and deliver joy when it’s needed   most. since setting our commitment, and despite  pandemic-related delays, by the end of fiscal   , we had directed more than $  million   to our hospital initiative.  we bring the positive power of disney stories  and characters to children in more than    children’s hospitals and pediatric places of   care around the world. in fiscal  , we  expanded our hospital installations globally,  while continuing to provide new disney-themed  starlight hospital wear and products, disney  movie moments, and disney+ access.reimagining the patient experience disney’s efforts in fiscal   included transforming  hospital spaces with imaginative installations like  interactive murals, digital displays, and play spaces  to ease the fear and anxiety of a hospital stay and  bring comfort to patients and their families.  • our children’s hospital concepts and experiences  expanded to hospitals in several u.s. states,  singapore, japan, india, and eight countries across  the europe, middle east & africa (emea) region.  • kanagawa children’s medical center became the  first hospital in japan to offer interactive disney  murals that bring beloved characters and stories  from disney, pixar, marvel, and lucasfilm to life.  • we added wall art in two new hospitals in india.  the installations at holy spirit hospital in mumbai  and homi bhabha cancer hospital in varanasi  delight and bring comfort to more than    children each day. disney concepts were installed in dr. von haunerschen kinderspital in germany (top left), ankara  bilkent city hospital in turkey (top right), kk women’s and children’s hospital in singapore  (bottom left), and kanagawa children’s medical center in japan (bottom right) in fiscal  .   world of hope our approach introduction investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  creating moments of comfort in  , we expanded complimentary access to  disney+ for the teams in children’s hospitals around  the world who support patients. these child life  specialists have reported that disney+ is a valuable  tool that offers a sense of normalcy and eases stress  during a child’s hospital stay.additionally, to provide a sense of community and  comfort during a time in which children may not  be able to visit movie theatres, we more than doubled  the number of participating hospitals in our disney  movie moments  program, with more than    hospitals or places of care receiving special access   to new movie titles from the walt disney studios.  new and existing hospitals kicked off their programs  with a special screening of disney and pixar’s  animated film lightyear. moments of comfort ~  child life specialist  teams provided with  complimentary   disney+ access in  children’s hospitals  in fiscal   ~ % of participating hospitals  that were surveyed said  complimentary disney+  and disney movie  moments access   positively impact the  patient experience  a magical day for children in may  , disneyland paris  invited hundreds of  children facing serious illness and their families to  enjoy the park’s  th anniversary festivities. the  special event was planned in collaboration with  pièces jaunes, part of the french fondation des  hôpitaux, whose mission is to improve the conditions  of hospitalized children and adolescents. guests were  joined by french first lady brigitte macron, who is  president of the fondation des hôpitaux, and didier  deschamps, french national soccer team manager  and godfather of pièces jaunes.   survey by starlight children’s foundation® in january   of  hospitals or pediatric places of care that are in starlight’s network.   world of hope our approach introduction investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  spotlight delivering joy through the power of disney characters and stories disney’s collaboration with starlight children’s  foundation®—a nonprofit dedicated to delivering  happiness to seriously ill children and their families— continues to bring moments of joy and comfort during  hospital stays and challenging moments. more than    hospitals in the united states and canada  received disney-themed starlight hospital wear, toys,  books, and games in fiscal  , and we continue to  focus our donations on the medically underserved and  vulnerable populations that need it most. disney, pixar,  marvel, lucasfilm, and espn starlight hospital wear  collections provided patients with their choice of fun  and comfortable clothing to wear during their  hospital stay.  may the  th be with you our may the  th celebration  helped distribute  lightsabers, adaptive costumes designed for children  in wheelchairs, and more to hospitals around the u.s. bringing movie magic to hospital gowns  pixar-themed starlight hospital wear, inspired by  iconic characters including those from disney and  pixar’s the incredibles , buzz lightyear and jessie from  toy story,  and russell from up, were offered to all  hospitals within starlight’s network for the first time.  additionally, qr codes printed on the gowns provide  an immersive experience for patients. delivering smiles  marvel-themed toys, books, and games were delivered  to children’s hospitals nationwide in august  .  patients at texas children’s hospital were delighted  by a special spidey and his amazing friends event with  the voice talent of hulk himself visiting.   world of hope our approach introduction investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  improving the patient experience: disney institute  has trained more than  ,   hospital workers since  . in fiscal  , experts  from disney institute again held training sessions for  kk women and children’s hospital (kkh) in  singapore. the course focused on training hospital  staff to create compassionate connections and  meaningful moments with patients through three  service principles: serve with heart, reach higher,  and own it. more than  ,  kkh employees and  leaders from multiple departments were in attendance.  learn more about disney institute: a young patient looks at magic  art, a delightful digital screen that  sparks to life with favorite characters  delivering inspirational messages.disney institute training  k+ hospital workers   trained since    , + attendees at kkh’s  training in     world of hope our approach introduction investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  wish granting disney supports children beyond their hospital  stays by helping grant life-changing disney wishes  for children when they need it most. together with  make-a-wish®, disney has helped grant more  than  ,  magical wishes since  . annually,  we grant thousands of wishes in collaboration with  wish-granting organizations around the globe. we  are committed to helping kids feel like kids rather  than patients by sharing unforgettable moments  with their families. after a hiatus due to pandemic  restrictions, in-person wish granting has made a  gradual return.make-a-wish  k+ magical wishes granted  with make-a-wish   since   joy for children who need it most the walt disney company uk & ireland, make-a-wish  uk, and the kentown wizard foundation collaborated  for a second year to provide magical disney wish  experiences for children with critical illnesses. in   , they granted more than   wishes and  included children from make-a-wish ireland. disney  voluntears gave their time and skills, contributing  more than  ,  volunteering hours to these wish  efforts. in addition to disney experiences, the event  also featured accessible activities such as a carousel  for kids of all abilities to share everyday family  moments together. granting wishes around the world wish granting has resumed at all of our theme  parks  around the world, as well as at aulani resort  and walt disney imagineering . in  , wish  families were given a special sneak peek of the  star wars: galactic starcruiser  at walt disney  world resort before it opened to the public.   and in china, in celebration of the fifth anniversary  of make-a-wish shanghai, disney committed  funds to support the construction of a wish room  at shanghai children’s medical center. a wish  room, run by make-a-wish staff and volunteers,  supports medically eligible children through the  wish-granting process.   world of hope our approach introduction investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  sports stars delivering joy espn’s my wish series has returned to sportscenter .  the award-winning series has collaborated with  make-a-wish since   to fulfill   sports-themed  wishes for children with critical illnesses. in fiscal   , wishes featured patrick mahomes of the kansas  city chiefs, klay thompson of the golden state  warriors, austin riley of the atlanta braves, and the  nfl’s new york giants. movie premiere wishes  in july  , two make-a-wish kids and their families  sat front row as stars walked the blue carpet into the  premiere of zombies   , a disney+ original movie  from disney branded television. the children also  got to meet with stars after the movie. a very special bon voyage  disney cruise line’s newest ship, the disney wish ,  debuted with the help of wish kids. during the  ceremony, three make-a-wish ambassadors— colby,  ; megan,  ; and jenna,  —symbolically  bestowed good fortune on the vessel and its  passengers. all wish kids, including past, present,   and future wish recipients, will be honored as the  ship’s “godchildren,” redefining the long-standing  maritime tradition of appointing a ship “godmother.” a child’s heartfelt wish can mark a turning point  in their treatment, giving them strength, joy, and  a greater sense of hope for their future.   world of hope our approach introduction investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  volunteering volunteering is a central and enduring part of   our company’s culture and at the heart of our  community engagement efforts.  through our disney voluntears program, the  company encourages passionate employees in   every community to donate their time and talents   to their local communities. since the program   was started nearly   years ago, our employees   and cast members worldwide have collectively  contributed nearly   million hours of service to  their communities. additionally, the voluntears  grants program lets employees direct donations   to eligible nonprofits of their choosing as a benefit  for the time they spend volunteering.  in fiscal  , we enhanced voluntears online, our  in-house tool that promotes volunteer opportunities  tied to our signature programs and campaigns.   we also enhanced the disney voluntears grants  program to make it easier for voluntears to be  able to direct donations for their hours volunteered  throughout the year. disney voluntears ~ m service hours   contributed worldwide  over nearly   years  + voluntears planted  butterfly-friendly  environments to   increase monarch  populations in   keeping our beaches clean learn more in our   data & reporting frameworks   several of our businesses supported beach cleanup  events in fiscal  . in honor of world ocean   day on june  th,   disney voluntears and family  members took part in a beach cleanup in guangzhou,  china. the team worked together to positively impact  the planet and teach children at the event about the  ocean and the importance of protecting the magic of  nature. for international volunteer day, voluntears  from shanghai disney resort supported beach  cleanup in chongming island, shanghai. protecting butterflies learn more in our   data & reporting frameworks   western monarch butterflies have seen dramatic  declines, and while populations have slightly  rebounded recently, they have lost more than  %  of their population since the  s.  habitat loss   is one of the critical drivers of this decline. to help  increase the population, more than   disney  voluntears across the united states planted  butterfly-friendly backyard environments in  . read more about disney’s conservation efforts:   xerxes society   world of hope our approach introduction investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  giving back at d  expo throughout a long-awaited d  expo near disneyland  resort—a three-day event for disney fans showcasing   what is happening at disney and what fans can expect  in the coming years—guests visited the inspire a better  world pavilion to explore disney’s social responsibility  projects and participate as honorary disney voluntears. during the d  expo, guests: • designed more than  ,  cards of encouragement for  children with critical illnesses. for each card designed,  we donated $  to make-a-wish. • helped support our avatar: the way of water “keep   our oceans amazing” initiative by designing almost   ,  avatar -inspired ocean creatures. for each ocean  creature created, we gave $  to the nature conservancy. • cast approximately  ,  votes to help donorschoose  allocate a disney grant to support reading and creative  writing, visual arts, stem, music and performing arts,   and sports in public schools nationwide. this funding   was part of disney future storytellers, described in   more detail on pages  –  .d  expo honorary  voluntears ~$ k donated to   charities thanks to   d  expo honorary  voluntears special care packages in south korea, voluntears prepared    winnie the pooh–themed gift packages, which  were delivered to children of families from  under-resourced communities. volunteering: challenge accepted during walt disney world resort’s  th anniversary,  disney voluntears were invited to take part in a    for   challenge . hundreds of voluntears  participated in this challenge to personally attain    volunteer hours and attend   voluntears  events during the  -month-long celebration.   world of hope our approach introduction investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  spotlight gratitude & respect for u.s. armed services disney has a long track record of respect and  appreciation for the u.s. armed services, which   began with the company’s founders, who both   served their country during world war i. we  recognize the commitment and dedication of military  service and value the leadership skills and sense of  purpose the military instills in its service members   and in society. we are honored to support active u.s.  military, veterans, and their families in many ways  across our company. learn more about our support of veterans: supporting blue star families learn more in our   data & reporting frameworks   in fiscal  , disney collaborated with blue star  families to host the  th blue star books  event  with a reading by first lady dr. jill biden. the  event was part of the white house’s  joining forces  initiative to support military and veteran families,  caregivers, and survivors. supporting the marine toys for tots program  disney’s relationship with the marine toys for tots  program began in  , when walt disney and his  animators designed the original toys for tots train   logo that is still used today. since then, disney has  supported toys for tots to help bring toys to millions   of children in need during the holiday season. in fiscal   , through the disney ultimate toy drive, more  than  ,  toys were collected at our sites, events,  and through dedicated segments on our tv networks.  employees donated more than  ,  of these toys  and contributed more than  ,  hours of service as  part of the disney voluntears program.   department of defense warrior games  the department of defense warrior games, hosted by  the u.s. army’s training and doctrine command,  celebrates the passion, resiliency, and dedication   of wounded, ill, and injured active duty and veteran   u.s. military service members. hundreds of elite  athletes, including those from international allied  nations, compete in adaptive sporting events such   as wheelchair basketball, cycling, indoor rowing,   and sitting volleyball, among other sports. in fiscal   , disney donated use of the espn wide world   of sports complex at walt disney world resort to  serve as a warrior games venue for the first time.these courageous service  members, injured during their  military duty, have demonstrated their  resilience and an ability to overcome  unthinkable obstacles. they are the  truest definition of the warrior’s spirit,  and we were honored to welcome  them to the warrior games at espn  wide world of sports this summer.  jeff vahle   president,   walt disney   world resort disney has supported the marine  toys for tots program since   to  help bring toys to millions of children  in need during the holiday season.   world of hope our approach introduction investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  stories of hope in communities around the world supporting hunger relief learn more in our   data & reporting frameworks  over the past decade, disney has collaborated   with feeding america to improve access to  nutritious meals. this year, in addition to supporting    feeding america member food banks to help  increase access to fresh produce for communities  that need it most, disney also supported feeding  america’s efforts in response to hurricane ian. in  addition, disney continues to help alleviate food  insecurity by supporting hunger relief organizations  worldwide. for example, in latin america, disney  supports the work of the global food banking  network and the efforts of food banks in argentina,  brazil, chile, colombia, and mexico. supporting cancer research  the v foundation for cancer research was founded  in   by espn and the late jim valvano, legendary  north carolina state basketball coach and espn  commentator. in fiscal  , with support from   espn fans, employees, and partners, more than   $  million was raised during v week—a record- breaking amount—to support the v foundation’s   fight to achieve victory over cancer. together with the   espys fundraising and  other events, espn raised more than $  million,  bringing the total that espn has helped raise to  nearly $  million for the v foundation since its  inception in  . supporting disaster relief learn more in our   data & reporting frameworks  disney provides emergency relief and supports  recovery efforts in communities worldwide. we  continue to support several organizations, including  unicef, the american red cross, and good .   in fiscal  , our disaster relief included supporting  hurricane ian recovery efforts , addressing the   impacts of wildfires in argentina, supporting children  and families in ukraine, and providing short-term  monetary assistance to employees experiencing  hardships—including those impacted by hurricane  ian—through the employee relief fund. supporting children and families in ukraine we have worked with unicef for many years, and when  the humanitarian crisis began in ukraine, we leveraged our  media platforms to support unicef in helping families  displaced by the conflict. abc news coverage and on-air  mentions across our networks drove thousands of viewers  to unicef’s website, raising more than $  million in a few  weeks. abc news’s david muir also led coverage on the  crisis, anchoring special editions of world news tonight  from the ukraine–poland border and anchoring a special  report on ukrainian president volodymyr zelenskyy. in addition to providing support to nonprofits, our  employees rallied to support those affected and displaced  into neighboring countries through our matching gifts  program and volunteering events. disney voluntears   in the emea region packed supplies, prepared food,   and created temporary disney-themed playrooms. the  company and employees also provided ukrainian-dubbed  screenings of disney animation’s encanto  and raya   and the last dragon , disney and pixar’s luca, ron’s gone  wrong , and other titles for ukrainian children and families  through community nonprofits.   world of hope our approach introduction investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  magic of storytelling learn more in our   data & reporting frameworks  first book is a nonprofit organization dedicated to  removing barriers to educational equity by providing  free and affordable new books and educational  resources to educators who serve children in need.   in fiscal  , we donated more than   million books   to first book, and since   we’ve distributed more  than   million books to help inspire the next  generation of storytellers.  since  , we have also collaborated with first book  to distribute books to under-resourced educators and  children through the magic of storytelling campaign.  take a behind-the-scenes look at how we inspire  imagination and a lifelong love of reading .first book donations  m+ books donated in   fiscal    m+ books distributed since    to help inspire  the next generation  of storytellers encouraging youth in india learn more in our   data & reporting frameworks  in fiscal  , we worked with care india to empower   ,  adolescent girls across   schools in mumbai,  helping them realize their potential to lead a better   life. the program has established   vibrant community  learning centers that give girls a space outside of school  to learn and hone their vocational skills. we also worked  with the parivaar education society in india to support    girls with education, boarding, food, medical  assistance, sports and recreation, clothing, and more.   in addition, with yuva unstoppable, we’ve helped create  a holistic learning environment for students across    schools by providing resources for science labs, sports,  arts, and technology (such as tablets). disney voluntears helped distribute  books at a donation event.   world of hope our approach introduction investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  spotlight inspiration & hope through sports superhero series superhero series is the uk’s only sports event  dedicated to the nation’s approximately   million  people with disabilities. the family-inclusive   event has been powered by marvel for the past four   years. during this time, and despite the pandemic, it   has seen  ,  superhero participants and  ,   sidekick volunteers take part in its signature events,  including superhero tri, winter wonderwheels, and  at-home superhero challenge, and raised more than  $  million for local charities. access to sports espn continues to support the special olympics   usa games. in fiscal  , more than  ,  athletes  and coaches from all   states and the caribbean  united for a week of competition, sportsmanship,   and fun at the espn wide world of sports complex   at walt disney world. additionally, espn’s access to sports initiative   works to provide children from all backgrounds   with the chance to play. for example, one program  supports the united states tennis association  foundation’s national junior tennis & learning  network. it promotes the power of tennis and provides direct support for tennis and education  programs that serve youth of color in eight chapters in  four major cities. in latin america, espn codeveloped  the campaign historias que inspiran  (stories that  inspire ) with the disney princess franchise, featuring  short videos with four athletes sharing their personal  journeys. when the videos achieved five million views,  we donated $ ,  to coaches across continents,  which supports access to sports-related educational  programs in vulnerable communities. this donation  built on an annual grant and long-term relationship  with the organization in argentina, brazil, chile,  colombia, and mexico. uefa playmakers inspired by disney the union of european football associations (uefa)  and disney teamed up to launch the playmakers  program in  , bringing together the magic of  disney storytelling with the latest research on the  benefits of play-based learning. providing a fun and safe introduction to football   for five- to eight-year-old girls, playmakers was  operating in   countries as of fiscal  , with   nearly  ,  girls having taken part across europe.   it teaches important movement and life skills, creates  friendships and confidence among girls, and inspires   a lifelong love of the game.   world of hope our approach introduction investing in our people operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  investing in  our people disney is home to some of the most  exceptional, extraordinary people. we are  where creativity meets opportunity and  careers are a journey of accomplishment  and celebration. we are a welcoming home  for talent of all kinds, from animators to  engineers to zookeepers and many roles   in between. we work together, and thrive  together, in making disney one of the  world’s most recognized, respected, and  well-regarded entertainment companies. in this section talent management strategy   employee feedback & recognition   safety, health & well-being   talent development   comprehensive rewards package     investing in our people our approach introduction world of hope operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging talent management strategy for nearly   years, disney employees and cast  members have made disney a leading global  entertainment company. disney is a place where  careers are a journey of creativity, accomplishment,  and celebration, and where everyone is respected.  our chief human resources officer, paul richardson,  continues to lead our human capital management  strategy and reports directly to our ceo. he regularly  updates our board of directors on topics such as  talent development and employee engagement and  is directly supported by a variety of dedicated human  resources functions across our businesses, content  engines, and regions. our approach focuses on  attracting, engaging, developing, and rewarding a  talented, diverse team while providing a respectful,  collaborative, and safe work environment.we move into our second century  knowing that the extraordinary  talent, diversity, and creativity of our teams  around the world is what brings our stories  and experiences to life. when we come  together as a unified team, leaning into  imaginative new ideas, we’re able to build  on our legacy of excellence with integrity  and an inclusive mindset.  paul richardson   chief human   resources officer,   the walt disney company   investing in our people our approach introduction world of hope operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  employee feedback & recognition we foster a culture where our employees can thrive, both personally and professionally, and seek  to create a work environment that inspires optimism, creativity, collaboration, and innovation. understanding employee needs we actively listen to and learn from our employees,  share their stories, and incorporate their ideas and  feedback into our activities, policies, and processes. • throughout fiscal  , employees across the  enterprise were surveyed at different points in time.  we found that engagement levels were very high  and that employees have pride in working for  the company. • in addition to surveys, we hosted diversity, equity,  and inclusion executive coffee talks with nearly   ,  registrants in fiscal  . feedback from  coffee talk sessions was a driver of our new senior  leadership development experience, disney ignite  (described on page  ), which hosted its first two  sessions in  . celebrating and uplifting our employees we recognize outstanding work by our employees  in several ways. • in fiscal  , disney continued to offer recognizenow!,  a digital platform that enables employees to appreciate  and recognize their peers around the world. • a new mobile cast compliment feature was introduced in  fiscal   in the my disney experience and disneyland  mobile apps, enabling guests visiting walt disney world  and disneyland resort to submit digital recognition to   cast members who made their visit memorable. since   we added the feature, more than  ,  compliments  have been sent to our cast members by guests.  • at our disney parks, experiences and products segment,  the legacy award also continues. the legacy award is the  highest honor a cast member can receive for embodying  walt disney’s legacy of excellence in dreaming, creating,  and inspiring in the workplace. in  ,   employees  and cast members across the globe received this  prestigious honor. employee recognition  k+ employee recognitions sent  through recognizenow!   in fiscal     employees and cast  members honored by the  legacy award in   learn more about how  we champion inclusion  for our employees:   investing in our people our approach introduction world of hope operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  safety, health & well-being we strive to provide a safe, healthy, and  respectful work environment where employees  have the support they need and the peace of  mind they deserve.united safety council’s  annual safety awards   safety awards won   in     years of continuous  recognition workplace safety the safety of our employees is a top priority in the  decisions we make. we promote a culture of safety  through numerous quality assurance programs and  internal safety standards, and our standards of business  conduct  provide the process to report safety concerns  and incidents. employees can report a concern by  calling our global security communications center   or an anonymous safety line, or by making a report  online through our internal system called the  guideline. many operating areas also have a safety   and wellness committee that can assist employees   in sharing or reporting concerns.  we have dedicated safety professionals in areas  including food safety, ride safety, occupational safety,  public health, and training and development. as an  example, disney parks, experiences and products’  safety champions help engage their teams in safety  and wellness programs, processes, and culture, and  assist in the oversight and implementation of safety and wellness initiatives. to help minimize workplace  safety risks, we offer employees and cast members   a variety of required and voluntary safety trainings.   this includes safety and wellness leadership in action,  focused on accident prevention, and improve your  move, focused on ergonomics. and the company’s  personal protective equipment (ppe) matrix is updated  regularly, detailing appropriate ppe required for  specific work tasks alongside helpful visuals. in fiscal  , four individual cast members and one  team at walt disney world resort were recognized   at the united safety council’s (usc) annual safety  awards for ingraining safety and wellness into everyday  park culture. usc is a nationally recognized safety  training and educational organization, and this win  marks the  th year in a row that walt disney world  locations and/or individuals have been recognized.   investing in our people our approach introduction world of hope operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  mental health learn more in our   data & reporting frameworks   disney prioritizes destigmatizing mental health  challenges and breaking down barriers to access  resources and care.  • we offer a variety of easy-to-access and innovative  programs for employees and cast members, including  access to counselors, meditation, and mindfulness  activities, as well as tips for building resilience and  getting more restful sleep. • we continue to offer our employee assistance  program (eap), which is available to all employees,  cast members, and their family and household  members. our eap provides  /  support and  connects participants directly to a licensed network  therapist at no cost.  • employees have access to headspace, where they can  follow guided meditations, animations, articles, and  videos on topics like meditating and mindful eating. • the disney healthy pursuits wellness team also  hosts brainbreaks, which are virtual activities to   help employees stay on top of their health.  • in  , disney won a best employers: excellence in  health & well-being award from the nonprofit business  group on health for our health and well-being benefits. employee well-being learn more in our   data & reporting frameworks   we hosted our first global well-being week in   , spotlighting the wide-ranging physical, mental,  and financial benefits we offer, while also providing  employees with easy ways to take advantage of   the benefits. as a special offering in fiscal  ,  disney provided recharge days for eligible u.s. and  international employees. these additional paid days  off provided a shared-time-off experience, allowing  teams to disconnect from work, email, and calls, all   on the same days. employees are also able to connect with health  coaches to learn how to get and stay healthy,  including by developing a nutrition and physical  activity routine. with access to easy-to-use digital  resources like grokker and lifecare, employees   can watch videos and read articles on relaxation  techniques, managing work/life balance, and more.  in  , we continued to promote our new center   for living well—gaea center for gynecology,  maternity, and fertility—in orlando. the center  provides employees, cast members, and their partners  with comprehensive, connected, and compassionate  care to help navigate their family-building journeys.a cast member enjoys yoga at   hong kong disneyland as part of  our efforts to support employee  well-being and mental health.    investing in our people our approach introduction world of hope operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  talent development learn more in our   data & reporting frameworks   we are committed to the ongoing development of  our workforce, offering an array of opportunities  that enable our employees to be the best versions  of themselves and make the most of their careers  at disney, no matter their individual aspirations. onboarding new talent following disney beginnings, one of our   orientation sessions, new hires attend the   disney beginnings expo, a new virtual offering   that creates connections and illustrates the many  uniquely-disney programs and experiences  available to them, such as disney voluntears.  access information on disney voluntears:employee learning  through top platforms ~ . m times self-directed   offerings were consumed  through d learn, harvard spark,   harvard managementor,   and harvard leading edge   in fiscal   ~ k times instructor-led offerings  were taken through   d learn in fiscal   employee learning platforms we support the growth and development   of our employees and cast members through   online and in-person learning tools and programs   designed to support employees both personally   and professionally—regardless of where they   are in their careers. the top platforms used by  employees in fiscal   included: d learn  d learn is the primary learning tool for disney   employees around the globe. employees can   complete both required training (e.g., standards  of business conduct) and optional learning  opportunities. d learn offers online and in-person  courses, and offerings include self-directed as   well as instructor-led training. • instructor-led offerings were taken almost   ,  times in fiscal  , from required new- hire orientations to optional leadership learning • self-directed offerings were consumed more than   .  million times in fiscal   • top learning items included: workday navigation,  disney leader essentials, and our commitment  to the company and our shareholders harvard spark harvard spark offers employees learning and  development content tailored to their unique  aspirations and personal preferences, meeting them  exactly where they are on their career journeys. • self-directed offerings were consumed more than   ,  times in fiscal   • top learning items included: your career path and  raise your emotional intelligenceharvard managementor  harvard managementor offers a customized   experience similar to harvard spark, specifically  geared to our leadership teams and those seeking  management skill development.  • self-directed offerings were consumed nearly   ,  times in fiscal   • top learning items included: presentation skills   and leading people harvard leading edge  harvard leading edge is a learning platform for  leaders and aspiring leaders that consolidates  reputable publications on topics ranging from  corporate social responsibility to hiring to  innovation, and more. • self-directed offerings were consumed nearly   ,  times in fiscal   • top learning items included: how to succeed  quickly in a new role and the virtual work skills  you need—even if you never work remotely    investing in our people our approach introduction world of hope operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  leadership development learn more in our   data & reporting frameworks   in fiscal  , we launched disney ignite, a   new multi-month virtual learning experience for  senior managers, directors, and vice presidents that   is focused on empowering them to be more confident  in leading with care and a people-first mindset.  in the first session,   leaders participated   from north america; latin america (latam); and the  europe, middle east & africa (emea) region, across  all businesses. the second session of ignite—for  leadership teams across the asia pacific (apac)  region—began in late  , and we plan to continue  offering ignite to even more leaders in the future. additional examples of leadership development  programs include: • we continued our disney leadership essentials program,  which reached more than  ,  leaders across the u.s.,  emea, latam, apac, and india. post-program surveys  showed that  % of participants took at least two  actions as a result of participating.  • at disney parks, experiences and products (dpep),  high-potential senior managers and directors engaged  in our cohort-based leadership immersion program,  which works to accelerate participants’ readiness for  critical positions.  • we increased our mentoring programs from   to     across disney in fiscal  . enrollment in these  programs increased by  % and mentoring hours  increased by  % from fiscal  . as examples, we  launched the mano a mano mentoring program to  champion the professional development of florida   cast members; disney general entertainment launched   a new mentoring program and career development  office; and our enterprise mentorship program— focused on finance, technology, csr, and other   topics—had more than  ,  individuals enrolled   in fiscal  , the seventh year of the program. learn about additional talent development  programs, such as our black talent network   and women’s talent network: disney ignite ~ % of participants strongly  agreed that ignite was  worth the time and effort  they put into it ~ % of participants were  able to identify specific  actions they could take to  improve as leaders as a  result of ignite   investing in our people our approach introduction world of hope operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  comprehensive rewards package disney offers a competitive rewards package that  includes pay, health, and savings benefits; time-off  programs; educational opportunities; and more.  together, these rewards make up a comprehensive  package that helps our employees and cast members  live their best lives, grow personally and professionally,  and take advantage of the special extras that only  disney can provide. equitable pay learn more in our   data & reporting frameworks   disney is committed to fostering a truly respectful and  equitable workplace culture. as part of that focus, in    we shared the results of an adjusted pay ratio  analysis , comparing the base pay of u.s. employees  based on gender, race, and ethnicity, controlling  for role, experience, and location. each adjusted pay  ratio was at least  % as of june   (with one ratio  at  %), and we continue to strive for  % equity  across all categories. we are committed to reporting  the adjusted pay ratio for our u.s. employee base pay  anually, and plan to include bonus and long-term  incentives in our adjusted pay ratio in  , as well as  an unadjusted median analysis of base pay (with no accounting for factors such as role, experience,   or location) in  . we are also working toward  expanding the gender pay ratio analysis to countries  outside the united states. we recognize the importance of pay transparency  to our employees, shareholders, and others, and   are committed to ensuring our employees and cast  members have the facts that determine their pay.   as part of this effort, we provided new educational  resources on compensation to leaders and employees  in fiscal  .  we also actively work with labor unions throughout  the year to promote a fair and just working experience  for the employees they represent—including reliable  scheduling, a clean workplace, and fair compensation.  almost all of the hourly full-time and part-time  employees in our u.s. disney parks, experiences and  products business earn a minimum of $ /hour, and  median hourly earnings are more than $ . /hour.  read our standards of business conduct  for more  details on our commitment to maintaining fair  working conditions for employees. access more information on benefits: learn more about our people and values:annual bonus plan in fiscal  , to reward the important contributions   of certain job levels below the executive level,   disney expanded eligibility for participation in   our annual bonus plan. the plan is tied to the  company’s fiscal-year performance and recognizes   the contributions employees make to business results. investing in our people through education disney aspire pays  % of tuition up front for  eligible hourly employees at a network of learning  institutions. see our spotlight on disney aspire on   the next page. disney also continues to offer education  reimbursement to salaried employees who are  interested in furthering their careers through  professional and technical education related to   their current roles. and to alleviate the financial burden of higher  education on disney employees, we offer scholarships  to eligible children of disney employees who are   high school seniors through our disney scholars  program. scholarships are awarded based on  academic achievement, extracurricular activities,  community service, and demonstrated leadership.   almost all hourly full-time and part-time non-tipped employees  in our u.s. disney parks, experiences and products business  earn a base rate of at least $ /hour, excluding walt disney  world college program participants (this program is not  comparable to other employment opportunities, as it includes  other benefits such as housing and transportation) and disney  stores in select regions. all employees earn minimum wage   or higher. median earnings for hourly employees is based on  total earnings for total hours paid and includes the impact of  overtime, shift premiums, and gratuities. excludes the value   of benefits for eligible employees.    investing in our people our approach introduction world of hope operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  spotlight disney aspire sets the bar for corporate-funded education learn more in our   data & reporting frameworks   disney aspire —the walt disney company’s education  investment and career development program—pays   % of tuition up front at network schools and is  available to  ,  eligible hourly full-time and part- time employees and cast members in the united states.  disney aspire continually evolves to meet the ever- changing needs of our diverse employee base, as well  as the ever-evolving job landscape, and the program  saw growth in fiscal  . additional colleges and universities disney aspire’s network of learning institutions  continued to grow throughout fiscal  , adding four  new colleges and universities. the additions included  the first in-network hbcu, north carolina a&t state  university, as well as the first culinary-dedicated option,  johnson & wales university. the network also grew to  include two more california-based options—california  state university, fullerton; and fullerton college— expanding in-person learning opportunities for our  eligible california-based employees. career advisors in fiscal  , we introduced disney aspire career  advisors. these advisors meet both one-on-one and   in group settings with students and graduates to help  them more confidently navigate their career journeys,  whether at disney or beyond. in fiscal  , more than   ,  advising sessions were hosted with employees. advocate program we also introduced the disney aspire advocate  program in fiscal  , which brings together  disney aspire program graduates from across the  company who have experienced internal career  mobility. advocates help spread the word, showcase  disney aspire's impact, and serve as mentors for  those exploring or currently enrolled in the program. disney aspire continues to set the standard for  employer-funded education programs. we externally  publish graduate and mobility data and invest in our  employees well beyond graduation. looking forward  to the year ahead, disney aspire will be celebrating  its fifth anniversary in august  .disney aspire participants ~ ,  employees enrolled   as of the end   of fiscal   ~ ,  past and present disney  aspire participants  internally promoted as of  the end of fiscal    as a little girl growing up in a  small village in haiti—where  my parents had to sacrifice to send  me to school for a better future—   i never once believed i could be  part of such of an amazing program.  disney aspire has given me hope  and opened so many doors for me.   i recently completed my bachelor’s  degree in hospitality and am now  working toward my master’s degree  in human resources. disney aspire is  a gift of a lifetime.  maniala lucien   disney aspire  graduate and walt  disney world resort  cast member   investing in our people our approach introduction world of hope operating responsibly data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  operating  responsibly we are focused on operating our   businesses with integrity, honesty,   trust, respect, and teamwork. in this section corporate governance   ethics   risk oversight   human rights   supply chain   guest safety   product safety   privacy & cybersecurity   digital wellness & responsible content   responsible advertising & marketing   journalistic integrity   tax strategy      operating responsibly our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging corporate governance learn more in our   data & reporting frameworks   we strive to adopt governance policies and practices  that represent our stakeholders’ interests, and we   seek to have a well-rounded board of directors. the  company has nominated   directors for our    annual meeting with relevant experience, including  from leading global organizations, and encompassing  a diverse range of talents, skills, and expertise.   ten of those   director nominees are independent,  and all members of the audit, compensation,   and governance and nominating committees are  independent. our directors reflect a diverse cross- section of the company’s shareholders, employees,  consumers, and communities, with seven out of     nominees representing diverse gender, ethnic,   or racial backgrounds. read more about board accountability   for csr in our approach: read more about our corporate   governance practices: board diversity (based on   directors nominated for our     annual meeting) racial/ethnic/gender diversity  %  out of     of our    director  nominees are  women and/or   racially/ethnically  diverse racial/ethnic diversity    out of   of our   director nominees  are racially/ethnically diversee  %asian american asian american   & black black latina gender diversity   %  out of    of our    director  nominees   are womenethics sv-hl- a.   learn more in our data & reporting frameworks   disney strives to conduct business in accordance   with high standards of business ethics and comply  with applicable laws, rules, and regulations wherever  we operate. our standards of business conduct  apply  to all employees and provide resources and tools   to promote ethical conduct and compliance with the  law. our board of directors is also held accountable  to these principles, as well as our code of business  conduct and ethics for directors . we regularly engage  our leaders and employees on these standards through  training and other forms of communication, and  employees can confidentially report ethical concerns   to our internal alert hotline, the guideline. learn more:   operating responsibly our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  risk oversight the board, either as a whole or through committees,  assesses major risks that relate to the company   and its performance, including risks that relate to   key economic and market assumptions that inform   the company’s business plans (including significant  transactions) and growth strategies, and significant  operational risks related to the conduct of the  company’s day-to-day operations. read more about risk management   in our proxy statement and  -k, both  available on our investor relations website :human rights our commitment to respect human rights is a company  priority. our commitment is informed by the united  nations guiding principles on business and human rights,  the united nations international bill of human rights,   and the international labor organization’s declaration  on fundamental principles and rights at work. we exercise due diligence on an ongoing basis to identify,  prevent, mitigate, and account for human rights risks  and impacts, and we update our assessment of salient  human rights risks as new information becomes available.  through collaboration and regular dialogue, we also  work with a variety of external stakeholders, industry  associations, and intergovernmental organizations to  identify and manage human rights risks. in fiscal  , we updated our human rights policy  to  reflect the evolving nature of our products and services,  changes in our business, and the world in which we  operate. updates include, among others, new sections   on content, communities, and privacy; additional  information on grievance mechanisms and remedies;   and expanded content on online safety to include  children’s privacy, safety and development, parental  controls, and responsible marketing guidelines.  our refreshed content on our human rights webpage   highlights various policies, practices, and programs   that implement our human rights policy, and identifies  our salient human rights issues in the following areas:   our people, our content, our products and supply chain,  our communities, children, and privacy. the governance and nominating committee of our board  of directors oversees the company’s human rights policies.  our general counsel has oversight for compliance with our  policy and works across the company to monitor emerging  issues, share progress, and identify areas for improvement.   operating responsibly our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  supply chain cg-aa- b.  learn more in our data & reporting frameworks   disney-branded products are produced in approximately   ,  facilities in more than   countries. this  manufacturing network and global footprint creates   a highly complex network of suppliers, many of them  several degrees removed from our direct operations. in addition, we purchase a vast array of products,  materials, and services from thousands of suppliers   to support our operations, such as theme parks and  resorts; cruise and vacation experiences; film, television,  streaming, and theatrical productions; and offices and  distribution centers. responsible sourcing is an important focus of disney’s  overall corporate social responsibility efforts. we   are focused on respecting human rights, reducing   the environmental footprint of our supply chain,  monitoring the safety and integrity of products,  promoting supplier diversity, and working in  collaboration with others to meet our objectives.  international labor standards we strive to foster safe, inclusive, and respectful  workplaces wherever disney-branded products are  produced. disney has set labor standards for the tens   of thousands of facilities that make disney-branded  products, whether we procure products to sell directly   to the consumer or license our intellectual property to  independent businesses that use their own supply chains. these standards come to life through our international  labor standards (ils) program, which licensees and  vendors producing disney-branded products are  contractually obligated to comply with. the program  is informed by our standards of business conduct , human  rights policy , and supply chain code of conduct , along  with a range of other responsible business expectations.  now in its third decade, the ils program tracks the names  and locations of authorized factories making disney- branded products; sets standards for when, where, and  how social compliance audits confirm compliance with  our standards; and provides guidance to vendors and  licensees on improving the labor conditions of their  facilities, if needed. suppliers are provided onboarding  training and can participate in ongoing training sessions  offered by our team. accountability, transparency & compliance   on international labor standards to promote company-wide integration, our chief  financial officer has responsibility for the ils   program. the audit committee of the company’s   board oversees and periodically reviews the program   and receives updates, generally on an annual basis,  about its performance. we use ils audits as a tool to identify and address  labor-related issues. audits are conducted by either  third-party auditors or disney staff. submitted social  compliance audits are reviewed for compliance with   ils program requirements. corrective action plans   are subsequently sent to licensees and vendors, who   are expected to review them with their facilities and  implement steps to promptly remedy any identified  compliance violations.supplemental guides are made available to our  licensees and vendors to help them work with their  facilities on program compliance. along with an  updated forced labor guide , we also published a   new health and safety guide  in fiscal  . to further  promote program compliance, we regularly refine   our permitted sourcing countries  list and periodically  update our published list of facilities  that produce  disney-branded products that are sold, distributed,   or used in our own retail and wholesale businesses,   as well as those used in our internal operations. in fiscal  , we enhanced and expanded our supply  chain code of conduct (previously named the code of  conduct for manufacturers). the updated code applies  to both branded and nonbranded products, as well as  their upstream components and materials, and formally  recognizes the united nations guiding principles on  business and human rights and the international labor  organization’s (ilo) declaration on the fundamental  principles and rights at work. it also includes, for  the first time, our expectations that suppliers will work  to mitigate their environmental impacts as aligned with  our   environmental g oals.  we are active participants in community efforts to  improve labor conditions in global supply chains,  including the joint forced labor working group,  business at oecd  investment and responsible business  conduct committee, the ilo global business network  on forced labor, ilo better work, and others. learn more about our ils program:   operating responsibly our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  spotlight   years of impact through the  supply chain investment program advancing labor standards requires sustained  investment to incubate and pilot scalable tools and  programs.   marked the  th year of disney’s  supply chain investment program (scip), which  provides grant funding to nonprofit organizations,  social enterprises, and united nations agencies to  create solutions that address root-cause issues of  poor working conditions and help enhance supply  chain visibility. over the past decade, scip has  addressed issues including forced labor, worker   voice, supply chain traceability, child labor, and  ethical recruitment. since  , disney has contributed more than $    million through scip to   unique programs in   more than   countries, directly benefiting  ,   workers and supporting tools that have reached   and benefited   million additional workers. read more about scip projects we have funded: in  , scip provided funding to the   following organizations • international organization for migration (iom) :  our funding supported iom’s international  recruitment integrity system (iris) global   policy network, a platform for dialogue and  exchange between policymakers, regulators,   and key stakeholders to facilitate ethical and  responsible recruitment of migrant workers.  • fishwise : disney’s funding supported the creation   of a market-based framework for monitoring labor  and human rights in the seafood sector in alignment  with existing human rights due diligence practices  and models.supply chain investment program $ m+ contributed by disney   through scip since     unique programs supported   in more than   countries since    k workers directly   benefited since  supply chain investment   program celebrates   years   operating responsibly our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  guest safety in our parks and resorts around the world, safety  is the first of the “ five keys ” of disney’s standards  for theme park excellence. we demonstrate our  commitment to safety in numerous ways at our  properties—from the imagineers who apply  advanced safety technologies to our attractions,  to our security cast members who patrol our  properties   hours a day. our safety professionals  reflect a broad range of disciplines, including  medicine, engineering, quality, maintenance,  attraction operations, ergonomics, industrial  hygiene, occupational safety, and food safety. parks safety to support guest safety at our parks, we use innovative  and “smart safety” systems for our attractions. every  night, maintenance teams perform priority maintenance  functions, and our computerized maintenance  management system tracks the completion of each  procedure. the system includes disney-patented  technology that prevents a ride from accepting   guests unless required critical maintenance has   been completed and the ride has been deemed  ready to open for operations. we regularly provide  our cast and crew members safety training and  information through formal instruction, on-the-job  training, and a structured communications process. according to the annual international association of  amusement parks and recreation ride safety report,  administered by the national safety council, the  industry injury rate per million in attendance has  decreased by  % over the past   years, from  .    to  .  injuries. over the past   years, our u.s. disney  parks have reported rates averaging  % below the  industry average.  wild about safety program    marks the  th anniversary of the disney   wild about safety program, which engages families   in safety and health through storytelling. the program  features timon and pumbaa from the lion king   animated movie as official “spokes-characters” on  a mission to spread important safety and health  messages to guests through a series of illustrations   in tip cards, activity books, videos, and other materials  throughout our domestic and international theme  parks and resorts. we’ve extended the program by  providing materials on a streaming platform for our  employees, cast members, and educators to use in  schools and in the community. the lesson-based,  multilingual, global educational program aims to  improve children’s awareness and understanding   of safety, health, and environmental issues, and  ultimately to impact their behavior.     national safety council   operating responsibly our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  product safety learn more in our   data & reporting frameworks   the safety of products bearing disney brands,  characters, and other intellectual property is of   the utmost importance to us. disney-branded  consumer products, spanning numerous categories  from toys and apparel to books and fine art, are  produced by thousands of independent licensees  and vendors around the world. our product safety  program accounts for this breadth, as well as the  rapid changes in scientific knowledge, evolving  regulations, and consumer and community concerns. our product integrity function oversees disney’s   safety policies, procedures, and operating   requirements for physical products containing  disney intellectual property across the enterprise.  disney requires that licensees and vendors  contractually commit to follow sensible, reasonable,  and proper procedures for verifying that disney- branded products comply with applicable safety  regulatory requirements and any additional  requirements that may be specified by disney.  we also have policies to manage the use of chemicals  in products. these require vendors and licensees   to conduct analytical tests by certified third-party  testing laboratories or equivalent procedures,  including testing for chemical levels to verify that, at a minimum, the products meet applicable  regulatory requirements. under the disney product  integrity program, all test reports submitted are  reviewed to verify that the testing was appropriate  and that the proper procedures were performed. in   , we introduced a new requirement prohibiting  the use of per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances— known as pfas—in consumer products developed,  sourced, and distributed by a disney entity. in fiscal  , we updated our supply chain code   of conduct  to include “quality and safety.” although   we had already communicated quality and safety  expectations to suppliers, the updated code formalized  our expectations across our supply chains. read more about how we manage the   use of chemicals:     operating responsibly our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  privacy & cybersecurity tc-im- a. ; tc-im- a. ; fb-rn- a.  learn more in our data & reporting frameworks   disney has implemented a robust and comprehensive  global privacy program based on the principles of  privacy by design, accountability, transparency, and  giving consumers meaningful controls over their  personal data. we regularly assess and update our  program to meet the requirements of emerging  privacy laws and regulations across the world, as well  as to keep up with rapid advancements in technology  and new business initiatives. in  , this included  updates to reflect laws going into effect in   in  california, virginia, colorado, utah, and connecticut. day-to-day management of our data privacy policies is  overseen by our senior vice president of global public  policy, who reports directly to our general counsel.   we have incorporated privacy topics into the company’s  annual standards of business conduct  and information  security training, and we conduct ongoing specialized  training for relevant groups that handle consumer and  employee data. our senior vice president, ciso cybersecurity &  technology, oversees day-to-day management of  data security. this role reports to our executive  vice president of enterprise technology and chief  information officer, who reports directly to our   chief financial officer. the audit committee   oversees cybersecurity and data security risks, and   the chief information officer updates the board   of directors or audit committee, at least annually,   on the company’s cybersecurity and data security   risks and mitigation strategies.the company’s information security program  incorporates the core functions of the national  institute of standards and technology cybersecurity  framework, which provide a strategic view of   an organization’s management of cybersecurity   risk. these functions cover areas such as asset  management, governance, risk management, identity  and access management, awareness and training,  data and information protection, response and  recovery, and communication protocols. we have an established information security   risk management framework that outlines the  following steps: • prepare : prepare the organization to manage   its information security risks by identifying key   roles, documenting responsibilities, establishing  information security risk principles, and helping  ensure users are educated. • categorize : categorize information systems based  on risk factors such as type of information stored   or processed, exploitability, and business impact.  • select and implement : protect information  systems commensurate with risk by selecting,  documenting, and implementing necessary controls. • assess : determine whether controls are  implemented correctly, operating as intended,  and producing the desired outcome. this is  accomplished through log collection and   reporting, control evaluations, risk assessments,   and remediation activities. • authorize : provide accountability by requiring  control owners to determine whether the  security risk, based on the operation of controls,  is acceptable. • monitor : maintain awareness about the security   of systems through ongoing monitoring. read more about our approach to privacy: read more about our approach to cybersecurity:   operating responsibly our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  digital wellness & responsible content we believe that the digital world should be a space  for kids and families to engage, learn, explore, and  express themselves. disney strives to produce positive,  respectful, high-quality content and experiences  designed for individuals, children of all ages, and  their families. we deliver content through multiple channels,  including our own digital offerings. our internal  policies and practices promote safety within our   digital experiences. we also provide parents with  controls and recommendations so that they can   have the information they need to choose the content   and experiences right for their families. for example,  disney+ and hulu provide parents and caregivers   with controls to manage their family’s engagement  with our content. this includes readily accessible  content ratings as well as the ability to create   profiles that can be tailored to provide a curated   set of content appropriate for the profile user.   in addition, subscribers can establish a pin to   control profile access.in addition to designing our digital platforms with  safety in mind, we invest in supporting children’s  digital well-being through our digital grant portfolio.  we provide funding to ngos and other organizations  working on digital issues to educate children, parents,   and teachers around the globe about digital citizenship.  grantees provide expertise in areas including digital  literacy and resilience, privacy, responsible internet  use, critical thinking, and educator training. in  , we expanded our comprehensive digital  wellness education programs with new programs   in belgium, bulgaria, kenya, nigeria, and south   africa. altogether, we supported   organizations  around the world while increasing our focus on  underserved communities, such as children in rural  areas, indigenous people, refugees, and children  with disabilities. our initiatives supported peer-to- peer training, youth advisory councils, and media  literacy initiatives (including reporting portals and  chat lines to assist children in crisis, and more). as an example, the paradigm initiative works to  connect underserved african youth with digital  opportunities to improve livelihoods. disney supports  its life (life skills, information & communications  technology, financial literacy, and entrepreneurship)  legacy program, which equips participants with digital  literacy and entrepreneur ship skills and connects  them to internships or entrepreneurial ventures.we also participate in industry coalitions to  promote user awareness of online safety. for  example, we are a longtime sponsor of fragfinn,  collaborate with childnet on safer internet day  in the uk, act as signatories to the alliance to  better protect minors online, and participate in  the members group of the family online safety  institute. in  , we joined the international  telecommunication union’s partner connect  digital coalition initiative, a multi-stakeholder  platform that mobilizes resources, partnerships,  and commitments to foster meaningful  connectivity and digital transformation globally,  in the hardest-to-connect communities. see more on our approach to digital wellness: learn more about the content safety  functionalities on some of our platforms:   operating responsibly our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  responsible advertising & marketing fb-rn- a.  learn more in our data & reporting frameworks   disney maintains standards and practices with respect  to the advertising we will accept on our media  properties, which reflects our commitment to help  promote truthful, accurate, and appropriate advertising. we also prioritize the rights and the cognitive and  emotional maturity of children when accepting and  developing advertising and marketing materials.  our guidelines and policies governing our products,  experiences, and communications are designed to  promote the digital and physical safety of children,  give parents the ability to decide on the appropriate  experiences for their families, and encourage children  to make good choices. we are also intentional about how we promote  healthy food and beverages to kids through our  nutrition guideline policy . these guidelines apply to  our studio promotions, food and beverage licensing,  third-party advertising on our kids’ networks, and  kids’ meals in disney parks. ongoing reviews of  these global guidelines help us reflect up-to-date  dietary guidance and consider the evolving social  and scientific understanding of children’s physical  and digital lives. in fiscal  , we continued to  have approximately  % of food and beverage  advertising on our owned and controlled media  platforms oriented to kids and families meet our  nutrition guideline policy. in addition, we again  achieved our global target to have  % of our  licensed food and beverages intended for children  and families meet our nutrition criteria for healthier  choices and carry the disney check to signify this.read more about our approach to responsible marketing online: through the disney check program, which marked its  th anniversary  in  , we help kids and families identify healthier food and beverage  options on licensed products wherever disney products are sold and at  our u.s. theme parks and disneyland paris.we work to make healthy living fun and simple. in  , marvel  teamed up with dole food company on the healthy heroes, assemble!  campaign to create avengers: super fuel!  short-form content to  encourage kids to try fruits and vegetables.    operating responsibly our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  journalistic integrity sv-me- a. ; sv-me- a.  learn more in our data & reporting frameworks   abc news is committed to the independence of our  editorial decision-making from commercial, political,  and other interests of the company’s management   or owners, as well as from the interests of external  stakeholders, and to providing citizens with accurate  and useful information across our platforms. it is our  responsibility to uphold the principles of fairness and  integrity as we gather and report the news. abc news  journalists are expected to approach their work with  rigor, to question thoroughly and skeptically, to  analyze deeply, and to adhere to the standards of  good journalism.  new abc news hires take part in standards and  ethics training upon joining the company. and   every year, training sessions on updated standards   are held for all abc news journalists. abc news is focused on research quality (e.g.,  thoroughness, diligence, control) and integrity.  plagiarism and the acceptance of payments, undue   gifts, or considerations are violations of abc news  standards. audience concerns and grievances about   abc news reporting are collected through a number   of mechanisms, including email and voicemail.   concerns are considered and, when deemed appropriate,  we issue updates, clarifications, or corrections. abc news editorial and management executives   are responsible for monitoring the performance   of the news division, including journalism ethics.  senior editorial executives and senior management  executives are responsible for oversight of media  ethics and guidelines at abc news.abc news received numerous prestigious industry  awards in  , such as nine emmy news and  documentary awards, including outstanding  environmental coverage for world news tonight  with david muir  and nightline  for madagascar:   the children of climate change ; eight edward r.  murrow awards across broadcast and radio,  including the excellence in diversity, equity,   and inclusion award for soul of a nation  and the  continuing coverage award for climate crisis:  saving tomorrow ; eight national association of  black journalists’ salute to excellence awards;  three society of professional journalists awards;  two multichannel news wonder women awards;  and one george foster peabody award.  espn upholds similar standards for journalistic  integrity. additionally, espn’s inclusive content  committee strives to enhance espn’s storytelling  by serving as a diverse resource for content creators.  in fiscal  , espn received two edward r.  murrow awards for journalism and espn’s e:   received its  th sports emmy since  . read more about journalistic integrity:industry awards   emmy news and documentary awards  presented to abc news in     edward r. murrow awards presented  to abc news and espn in     sports emmy awards presented to  espn’s e:  since  tax strategy  our global tax strategy supports our  commitment to high standards of corporate  governance, transparency, and accountability in  the execution of our global business strategy.  our tax strategy and its underlying principles  apply to all controlled subsidiaries in the walt  disney company and guide the decisions we  make relating to corporate tax matters. we  operate with a zero-tolerance approach to tax  evasion and the facilitation of tax evasion. read more:   operating responsibly our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people data & reporting frameworks table of contents world in balance world of belonging  data & reporting  frameworks we measure year-over-year performance  of certain metrics and include select  reporting standard indexes to help our  stakeholders find the information that   is important to them. in this section overview   fiscal   data table   tcfd index   sasb index   sdg indicators   forward-looking statements     data & reporting frameworks our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly table of contents world in balance world of belonging overview we are committed to providing an annual account   of our performance on corporate social responsibility  topics and we appreciate feedback on our efforts   and reporting. our assessment of priority areas   of impact to our businesses and stakeholders drives   the content and data in this report. these priorities— and thereby our reporting of them—are informed   by various frameworks. these include sustainability  accounting standards board (sasb), cdp (formerly  the carbon disclosure project), task force on climate- related financial disclosure (tcfd), united nations  sustainable development goals (sdgs), and others. this update represents our impacts, progress, and  results as they relate to social and environmental  responsibility. our corporate reporting function,  which also manages disney’s financial data and  reporting, collects and validates our data. we take   care to explain estimates or assumptions that have  been used in the development of metrics,  as appropriate.scope unless otherwise specified, all data and information   in this csr report pertain to efforts in fiscal  ,  which began on october  ,  , and ended on  october  ,  . for the most part, data refer to  assets under management as of the beginning of the  fiscal year. the terms “company,” “we,” “disney,” and  “our” are used to refer collectively to the parent   company and the subsidiaries through which business   is conducted. inclusion of information in this report  should not be construed as a characterization of the  materiality or financial impact of that information.  learn more about our company and our social  and environmental responsibility efforts: view our annual report on form  -k for   the year ended october  ,   and other  publicly filed documents visit our esg reporting center to see more  policies & practices:select policies & practices disney is committed to a number of policies   and practices that promote the thoughtful and  ethical operation of our businesses. environment •    cdp climate change survey response •   environmental goals white paper • live animals in entertainment policy • management of chemicals in consumer products • natural climate solutions white paper • paper sourcing  and use policy social • california transparency in supply chains   act statement • charitable giving guidelines • conflict minerals policy •   eeo-  • human rights policy • international labor standards program manual • involuntary labor policy • nutrition guidelines • our stories and characters • pay ratio disclosure • permitted sourcing countries policy • privacy center • smoking in movies • supply chain code of conduct • uk modern sla very act transparency statement governance • anti-c orruption policy • anti-piracy policy • global tax strategy statement • information security management system • political giving & participation in the  formulation of public policy • standards of business conduct   data & reporting frameworks our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly table of contents world in balance world of belonging  fiscal   data table  not reported (nr) environmental sustainability          emissions (metric tons co  e) scope   emissions ,  ,  ,   ,   ,   ,  stationary fuel  ,  nr nr nr mobile fuel  ,  nr nr nr refrigerants, livestock, other  ,  nr nr nr scope   emissions (location-based) ,  ,  ,   ,   ,   ,  scope   emissions (market-based) ,  ,  ,  ,   ,   ,   ,  electricity  ,  nr nr nr chilled water, hot water, other  ,  nr nr nr total scope   &   emissions (location-based) ,  ,  , ,   , ,   , ,   , ,  total scope   &   emissions (market-based) ,  ,  ,  , ,   , ,   , ,   , ,  retired carbon credits ,  ,   ,   ,   ,  net emissions (market-based) ,  ,  ,  ,   ,   ,   ,        emissions (metric tons co  e) (continued) scope   emissions in progress nr nr  , ,  category   purchased goods and services ,  ,  ,  in progress nr nr  , ,  category   capital goods ,  in progress nr nr  ,  category   fuel- and energy-related activities  ,  in progress nr nr  ,  category   upstream transportation   and distribution ,  in progress nr nr  ,  category   waste generated in operations in progress nr nr  ,  category   business travel ,  in progress nr nr  ,  category   employee commuting ,  in progress nr nr  ,  category   upstream leased assets in progress nr nr  ,  category   downstream transportation   and distribution in progress nr nr nr category   processing of sold products in progress nr nr  nr category   use of sold products in progress nr nr  ,  category   end-of-life treatment   of sold products ,  ,  in progress nr nr  ,  category   downstream leased assets  in progress nr nr  ,  category   franchises ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  in progress nr nr  , ,  category   investments in progress nr nr  ,    data & reporting frameworks our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly table of contents world in balance world of belonging  fiscal   data table   (continued)not reported (nr) environmental sustainability  (continued)         energy total energy (mwh) , ,   , ,   , ,   , ,  total electricity (mwh)  , ,  nr nr nr percentage zero carbon electricity %  % nr nr percentage grid electricity %  %  % nr percentage renewables . %  . %  . % nr renewable fuel (mwh)  ,  nr nr nr renewable electricity, on-site generation (mwh)  nr nr nr utility green power programs (mwh) ,  nr nr nr unbundled recs (mwh) ,  nr nr nr waste  percentage of operational waste diverted from   landfill and incineration (company)   %  %  %  % operational waste generated (company) (tons) ,   ,   ,   ,  operational waste sent to landfill and incineration   (company) (tons) ,   ,   ,   ,  operational waste diverted   (company) (tons) ,   ,   ,   ,  percentage of operational waste diverted from   landfill and incineration   (parks, resorts, and cruise line) %  % nr nr operational waste sent to landfill   (parks, resorts, and cruise line) (tons) ,   ,  nr nr        water  total water consumed (billions of gallons)  .   .  nr nr potable water consumed (billions of gallons)  .   .   .   .  non-potable water consumed (billions of gallons)  .   .  nr nr sustainable design ,   percentage of construction waste diverted   from landfill and incineration %  % nr nr construction waste generated (tons)  ,   ,  nr nr construction waste sent to landfill (tons)  ,   ,  nr nr construction waste diverted (tons)  ,   ,  nr nr   data & reporting frameworks our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly table of contents world in balance world of belonging  fiscal   data table   (continued)not reported (nr) social impact         charitable giving charitable giving (cash contributions, in millions)  $  .   $  .   $  .   $  .  charitable giving (in-kind donations, in millions)  $  .   $  .   $  .   $  .  total charitable giving   (cash and in-kind donations, in millions) ,   $  .   $  .   $  .   $  .  charitable giving to programs supporting   underrepresented communities   (cash and in-kind donations, in millions) ,  ,   $  .   $  .  nr nr        volunteering voluntears hours ,   ,   ,   ,  supplier diversity total direct spend with minority, women,   disabled, u.s. veteran, service-disabled u.s. veteran,   u.s. veteran spouse, and lgbtqia+ owned   business enterprises (in millions) $ .  $ .  $ .  $ .  workforce         employment & employment status  global employees ,  ,   ,   ,   ,  casual seasonal (global) %  %  %  % casual ongoing (global) %  %  %  % full-time (global) %  %  %  % percentage of employees covered by   collective bargaining agreements (u.s.) %  %  %  %        training, development, and competitive pay learning courses offered (unique) ,  ,   ,   ,   ,  number of learning courses taken , ,   , ,   , ,   , ,  median wage earnings for u.s. disney parks, experiences  and products hourly employees $ . /hour $ /hour $ /hour nr percentage of u.s. disney parks & resorts hourly  employees earning minimum wage or higher %  %  % nr   data & reporting frameworks our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly table of contents world in balance world of belonging  fiscal   data table   (continued) diversity & inclusion: workforce representation ,  ,           overall workforce women (global)  . %  . %  . %  . % people of color (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % asian (u.s.)  . %  . %  .  %  . % black or african american (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % hispanic or latino (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % native american or alaskan native (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % native hawaiian or other pacific islander (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % white (u.s.)  .  %  . %  . %  . % two or more races (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % undisclosed (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % executive women (global)  . %  . %  . %  . % people of color (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % asian (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % black or african american (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % hispanic or latino (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % native american or alaskan native (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % native hawaiian or other pacific islander (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % white (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % two or more races (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % undisclosed (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . %        manager women (global)  . %  . %  . %  . % people of color (u.s.)  . %  . %  .  %  .  % asian (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % black or african american (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % hispanic or latino (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % native american or alaskan native (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % native hawaiian or other pacific islander (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % white (u.s.)  . %  . %  .  %  .  % two or more races (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % undisclosed (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % below manager women (global)  . %  . %  . %  . % people of color (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  .  % asian (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % black or african american (u.s.)  . %  .  %  . %  . % hispanic or latino (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % native american or alaskan native (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % native hawaiian or other pacific islander (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % white (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % two or more races (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . % undisclosed (u.s.)  . %  . %  . %  . %   data & reporting frameworks our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly table of contents world in balance world of belonging  fiscal   data table   (continued)not reported (nr) diversity & inclusion: content representation          scripted and film ,   directors people of color  . %  . %  . % nr white  . %  . %  . % nr women  . %  . %  . % nr men  . %  . %  . % nr series regulars / leads people of color  . %  . %  . % nr white  . %  . %  . % nr women  . %  .  %  . % nr men  . %  . %  . % nr producers people of color  . %  . %  . % nr white  . %  . %  . % nr women  . %  . %  . % nr men  . %  . %  . % nr writers people of color  . %  . %  . % nr white  . %  . %  . % nr women  . %  . %  . % nr men  . %  .  %  . % nr        news and sports  on air people of color  . %  . %  . % nr white  . %  .  %  . % nr women  . %  . %  . % nr men  . %  . %  . % nr behind the camera people of color  . %  . %  . % nr white  . %  . %  . % nr women  . %  . %  . % nr men  . %  . %  . % nr   data & reporting frameworks our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly table of contents world in balance world of belonging  fiscal   data table   (continued)not reported (nr) supply chain         facility footprint ,   aggregate number of facilities manufacturing  disney-branded products during the fiscal year ,   ,   ,   ,  total number of countries         number of countries with  % or less of total facilities         facility footprint: country data ,  ,   number of facilities manufacturing disney-branded products by country: # (% of total)  china  ,  ( %)  ,  ( %)  ,  ( %)  ,  ( %) japan  ,  ( %)  ,  ( %)  ,  ( %)  ,  ( %) usa  ,  ( %)  ,  ( %)  ,  ( %)  ,  ( %) south korea  ,  ( %)  ,  ( %)  ,  ( %)  ,  ( %) brazil  ,  ( %)  ,  ( %)  ,  ( %)  ,  ( %) india  ,  ( %)  ,  ( %)  ,  ( %)  ,  ( %) taiwan  ,  ( %)  ,  ( %)  ,  ( %)  ,  ( %) italy  ,  ( %)  ,  ( %)  ,  ( %)  ,  ( %) turkey   ( %)   ( %)   ( %)   ( %) france   ( %)   ( %)   ( %)   ( %) united kingdom   ( %)   ( %)   ( %)   ( %) portugal   ( %)   ( %)   ( %)   ( %) vietnam   ( %)   ( %)  % or less  % or less poland   ( %)   ( %)  % or less  % or less germany   ( %)   ( %)   ( %)   ( %) spain   ( %)   ( %)  % or less  % or less all other facilities   (in countries with < % of total facilities) ,  ( %)  ,  ( %)  ,  ( %)  ,  ( %)        remediation ,   percentage of audits with findings identified for remediation child labor < %  % < %  % involuntary labor < % < % < %  % coercion and harassment < % < % < % < % non-discrimination < % < % < %  % association < % < % < %  % health and safety: factory  %  %  %  % health and safety: dormitory  %  %  %  % compensation: minimum wage  %  %  %  % compensation: overtime wage  %  %  %  % compensation: overtime hours  %  %  %  % compensation: social benefits  %  %  %  % protection of the environment  %  %  %  % other laws  %  %  %  % subcontracting < %  %  %  % monitoring and compliance  %  %  %  % publication  %  %  %  % facility audits ,   percentage of tier   supplier facilities audited  %  %  % nr percentage of tier   audits conducted by a  third-party auditor %  %  % nr   data & reporting frameworks our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly table of contents world in balance world of belonging  fiscal   data table   (continued) healthy living          percentage of disney-licensed wholesale food sales dedicated to everyday foods that meet our nutrition guidelines global meets   %  targetmeets    %   target % meets    %   target north america meets   %  targetmeets    %   targetmeets    %   targetmeets    %   target footnotes  general   disney’s fiscal year ends on the saturday closest to september  .  environmental sustainability    some previously published environmental data have been  restated to reflect corrections, updates to methodology, and/or  changes in emission factors. fiscal   and fiscal   data  have been revised to include twenty-first century fox operations.   the boundary for disney’s greenhouse gas emissions (ghg)  reporting includes owned and operated assets (such as theme parks  & resorts, disney cruise line, and commercial spaces), leased assets  (such as office locations), as well as productions (including feature  films, television, theatricals, and sporting events). direct co    emissions from biogenic fuels are not included in the scope   totals.  they are as follows: fy :  ,  mt co  e; fy :  ,  mt  co e; fy :  ,  mt co  e; fy :  ,  mt co  e.   ghg emissions are measured and calculated according to the  principles in the world resources institute (wri) and the   world business council for sustainable development (wbcsd)  greenhouse gas protocol’s “a corporate accounting and reporting  standard,   revised edition” (ghg protocol).   market-based emissions are used where available in calculating  carbon credit retirements, total emissions, and net emissions.   we define “net emissions” as follows: scope   emissions + scope    emissions (market-based) – carbon credits. scope   emissions  (market-based) include emission reductions attributed to utility green power purchases, power purchase agreements, and  unbundled energy attribute certificates (eacs). our approach   to carbon credits can be found in our natural climate solutions  white paper . we will have achieved our   “net zero emissions”  goal when “net emissions,” as defined above, equals  .   carbon credits are from projects developed according to  recognized standards (e.g., climate action reserve, verified   carbon standard, gold standard) and retired annually . all credits  are verified by accredited third-party reviewers.   scope   emissions calculations follow guidance provided by the  ghg protocol. in many instances, these emissions calculations are  based on estimated and extrapolated data and rely on third-party  emission factor databases and industry averages. we expect to make  continuous improvements to scope   estimates over time, including  updates to assessments of business activities and activity boundaries,  and improvements in input data and emission factors. at the time   of publishing this report, fiscal   is our most recent scope    inventory, with fiscal   scope   footprint calculation in progress  (to be reported out at a later date).   spend-based methodology estimates emissions for goods and  services by collecting data on the economic value of goods and  services purchased and multiplying that by relevant secondary   (e.g., industry average) emission factors (e.g., average emissions   per monetary value of goods).   hybrid methodology uses a combination of supplier-specific activity  data (where available) and secondary data to fill the gaps. this  method involves: collecting allocated scope   and scope   emissions data directly from suppliers; calculating upstream emissions of goods  and services from suppliers’ activity data on the amount of materials,  fuel, and electricity used, as well as distance transported and waste  generated from the production of goods and services, and applying  appropriate emission factors; and using secondary data to calculate  upstream emissions wherever supplier-specific data are not available.   average data methodology estimates emissions for goods and  services by collecting data on the mass (e.g., kilograms or pounds)  or other relevant units of goods or services purchased, and  multiplying by the relevant secondary (e.g., industry average)  emission factors (e.g., average emissions per unit of good or service).   fuel-based methodology involves determining the amount of   fuel consumed (i.e., scope   and scope   emissions of transport  providers) and applying the appropriate emission factor for that fuel.   average product methodology involves estimating emissions   for goods by collecting data on the mass or other relevant units   of goods purchased and multiplying by relevant secondary   (e.g., industry average) emission factors (e.g., average emissions   per unit of good).   distance-based methodology involves determining the mass,  distance, and mode of each shipment, then applying the appropriate  mass-distance emission factor for the vehicle used.   waste-type specific methodology involves using emission factors   for specific waste types and waste treatment methods.   site-specific methodology involves site-specific fuel, electricity, and  fugitive emissions data, and applying the appropriate emission factors.  franchise-specific methodology involves collecting   site-specific activity data or scope   and scope   emissions   data from franchisees.   asset-specific methodology involves collecting asset-specific  (e.g., site-specific) fuel and energy use data and process and  fugitive emissions data, or scope   and scope   emissions data  from individual leased assets.   emissions within this category were evaluated and determined  not to be relevant. activities identified as downstream  transportation and distribution do not result in significant   scope   emissions for the company.   emissions within this category were evaluated and determined  not to be relevant. the company does not have any activities  that it characterizes as intermediate goods.   total energy includes electricity, natural gas, chilled water,   hot water, steam, compressed air, renewable energy, and fuels.   fy –fy  data excludes energy from productions.   percentage grid electricity is purchased electricity consumption  divided by total energy consumption.   percentage renewables is renewable energy consumption  divided by total energy consumption. renewable energy  consumed includes renewable fuels and renewable electricity  that we produce or purchase and match with renewable   energy certificates (recs) or guarantees of origin (gos).   the renewable portion of the electricity grid mix for which we  do not possess recs or gos is not included in this calculation.   data & reporting frameworks our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly table of contents world in balance world of belonging  fiscal   data table   (continued) footnotes   percentage zero carbon electricity is zero carbon electricity  consumption divided by total electricity consumption. we define  zero carbon electricity as any type of electricity generation that does  not generate ghgs such as solar, wind, geothermal, nuclear, and  large-scale hydropower.   waste diverted includes waste prevention, donations, recycling,  compost, anaerobic digestion, and thermal waste-to-energy. total  waste generated includes diverted waste, waste sent to landfill, and  incineration without energy recovery. incineration without energy  recovery is not counted in total waste sent to landfill nor total waste  diverted—thus the two do not sum to total waste generated.   for total company data, facilities include theme parks & resorts,  disney cruise line, espn, enterprise-owned commercial and office  spaces, and pixar. excluded are all leased properties, disney stores  and distribution centers, tv stations, and all construction materials.   diversion rate includes data from annual facility asset planning  construction projects and construction for new assets that became  operational in the reporting year, in the u.s. and europe only.   the boundary for disney’s water volume reporting includes owned  and operated assets (theme parks & resorts, disney cruise line,  owned commercial and office spaces, studios, and espn). water  consumption from disney stores and leased assets are excluded.  water data for shanghai disney resort were not included in data  prior to fiscal  .   a third-party validator provided limited assurance of our fiscal  ,  fiscal  , and fiscal   ghg emissions. limited assurance of  fiscal   emissions will be reported out upon completion.  social impact   charitable cash contributions include company-directed charitable  cash donations, including contributions made by the disney  conservation fund, as well as employee-directed matching   gifts grants and disney voluntears grants.   in-kind support refers to noncash contributions comprising tangible  items or non-tangible support. donations may include, but are not  limited to, estimated values for merchandise, theme park tickets,  food, public service announcements (psas), character/talent  appearances, and other noncash charitable support. due to  differences in distribution, viewership, programming, availability,  pricing, marketplace demand, and other variables, psas are valued  differently across our media platforms. for example, in some cases,  psas are valued based on an average sales price for the time  period. in other cases, the value is based on an average sponsor value across a daypart rotation. therefore, we do not use a single  method to value psas.   includes grants directed toward historically underrepresented   and protected communities, including asian american & pacific  islander, black & african american, hispanic & latino, native  american & indigenous, and lgbtqia+ communities, as well as  people with disabilities, veterans, and women. we also include  grants to organizations where a percentage of their services  reaches underrepresented and protected communities. if the  organization spends a majority of its efforts on these communities,  we count the entire grant, and if the organization does not   spend a majority, we count a proration of the grant. we rely on each  organization’s self-reported percentages regarding communities  served. on a sample basis, we validate the percentages that we report.   disney voluntears data includes hours logged by employees of  the walt disney company and its subsidiaries and is rounded.   supplier diversity data includes tier   spend with firms that   have obtained certification from a third-party agency as being at  least  % owned, controlled, and operated by a minority, woman,  disabled person, veteran, service-disabled veteran, veteran spouse,  or lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender person. we validate diverse  status through certification compliance using wbenc, nmsdc,  department of veterans affairs, nglcc, and disability:in.  workforce, diversity & inclusion   employee statistics generally reflect our employment base at the  end of each fiscal year.   headcount includes employees at the walt disney company  (twdc), hulu, pixar, disneyland paris, and twenty-first century   fox (tfcf). excludes dailies, freelancers, contractors, and  domestic twdc employees not paid in the last   days.   consistent with our  -k, global employee numbers are rounded   to the nearest thousand.   learning-related data are approximate and rounded. data reflects  courses offered through our top learning platforms: d learn,  harvard spark, harvard managementor, and harvard leading  edge. d learn data represents all employees, excluding pixar and  contract workers for all years and hulu employees prior to fiscal   . data incorporates both required and non-required courses,  including online courses, orientations, in-person classes, and on  demand content. participants can attend more than one course and  may view online content more than once, depending on their  individual needs.  data represents the number of unique courses offered. in csr  reports in prior years, this metric measured the number of  scheduled classes of a unique course. methodology was updated   to better reflect unique courses offered vs. courses consumed.   almost all hourly full-time and part-time nontipped employees   in our u.s. disney parks, experiences and products business earn   a base rate of at least $ /hour, excluding walt disney world  college program participants (this program is not comparable to  other employment opportunities, as it includes other benefits such  as housing and transportation) and disney stores in select regions.  all employees earn minimum wage or higher. median earnings for  hourly employees is based on total earnings for total hours paid  and includes the impact of overtime, shift premiums, and gratuities.  excludes the value of benefits for eligible employees.   headcount includes full-time and part-time employees at   twdc, hulu, pixar, disneyland paris, and tfcf. excludes dailies,  freelancers, contractors, casual seasonal, interns, and domestic  twdc employees not paid in the last   days. domestic counts  exclude disney cruise line shipboard. percentages for women  based on global full- and part-time headcount. percentages for  people of color include u.s.-based full- and part-time employees  only. people of color includes employees who are asian american,  black or african american, hispanic or latino, native american   or alaskan native, native hawaiian or other pacific islander, or  two or more races.   “executive” includes employees at the director level and above.  “manager” includes employees at manager levels. “below manager”  includes employees that do not meet executive or manager criteria.  in fiscal   and prior, tfcf directors were included in manager.   scripted & film representation percentages include abc  entertainment, abc signature (previously known as abc studios),  disney branded television, freeform, fx, hulu originals, national  geographic, onyx collective,  th television, and feature films   from disney, disney animation, pixar, lucasfilm,  th, searchlight,  and marvel. data are limited to content developed by twdc and  excludes daytime, unscripted, global content developed in region,  and star. data are not available for fiscal  .   news and sports representation percentages include executive,  project hire, and full- and part-time employees. data excludes  contingent workers, student programs, daily employees, and  seasonal employees. employees that did not disclose gender  information or disclosed they are non-binary/third gender are  included in the men metric. employees that did not disclose  ethnicity information are included in the white metric. data are  not available for fiscal  .  content representation data for scripted & film for fiscal    were restated due to a change in calculation methodology.  updated methodology totals talent by show instead of business  unit, providing a more accurate measurement of representation.  supply chain   the supply chain for disney-branded products experiences  routine fluctuations in active facilities. in any given year, a  significant number of new facilities may become authorized   to produce disney-branded products, which complicates any  year-to-year comparison. in fiscal  , the facility count   shown includes approximately  ,  beyond tier   that are  subject to the purview of the disney international labor  standards (ils) program.   facility footprint data includes all facilities authorized to  manufacture disney-branded products at any point during   the fiscal year. with respect to tfcf intellectual property, as  contracts are newly executed, renewed, or amended with   respect to the manufacturing of products, the facilities producing  such goods fall under the purview of the disney ils program   and are included in the facility footprint data. facility data are  rounded to the nearest hundred.   for country facility data, total facilities are approximate   and rounded.   disney uses the world bank’s governance indicators as the  primary resource for identifying and comparing areas of risk   and determining where to focus our monitoring resources   and requirements. please refer to our permitted sourcing  countries policy .   the disney ils program works toward ongoing and sustainable  improvement in working conditions at facilities producing  disney-branded products. all code of conduct violations  identified in active facilities as the result of audits or assessments  must be corrected or remediated within the time periods and in  the manner established by the disney ils program as a condition  of continued use of the facility for the production of disney- branded products.  healthy living   healthy living licensing results do not include tfcf businesses  prior to fiscal  .   data & reporting frameworks our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly table of contents world in balance world of belonging  tcfd index the task force on climate-related financial  disclosures (tcfd) developed a voluntary  framework for companies to provide climate- related information to stakeholders. in line with  tcfd’s recommendations, each year we publicly  disclose our climate-related information primarily  through our cdp climate change survey response .  in the following index, we provide a mapping of  tcfd’s disclosure recommendations to our cdp  responses to make clear where to find comparable  information regarding how we approach and  manage climate risks and opportunities.  the walt disney company is committed to   taking meaningful and measurable action to  support a cleaner, safer, and healthier planet   for future generations as we operate and grow   our businesses. in addition to our annual response  to cdp’s climate change survey, in late     and late   we launched ambitious goals to  continue making progress in addressing our  environmental impacts, and in   the board  delegated oversight of environmental, social,   and governance programs and reporting to   the governance and nominating committee,  including with respect to environmental   and sustainability policies and initiatives.   for a full description of our goals, read our     environ mental goals white paper .topicdescription of tcfd   disclosure requirementcomplete tcfd   disclosure requirementrelevant   cdp climate   change survey responses governance degree of board oversight (a) describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks   and opportunities.c . b  management’s role (b) describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate- related risks and opportunities.c . , c . a strategy climate-related risks and opportunities (a) describe the climate-related risks and opportunities   the organization has identified over the short, medium,   and long term.c . a, c . , c . a,   c . , c . a impacts of risks and opportunities (b) describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on  the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning.c . a, c . a, c . ,   c . b, c . , c .  resilience of the organization’s strategy (c) describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into  consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a    °c-or-lower scenario.c . , c . a, c . b risk management climate risk identification process (a) describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing  climate-related risks.c . , c . , c . a climate risk management process (b) describe the organization’s processes for managing climate- related risks.c . , c .  integration with other   risk management processes(c) describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing  climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall  risk management.c . , c .  metrics & targets identify risk assessment metrics (a) disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate- related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk  management process.c . , c . a, c . b identify ghg emissions (b) disclose scope  , scope  , and, if appropriate, scope   ghg  emissions, and the related risks.c . , c .  identify targets and risk metrics (c) describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate- related risks and opportunities and performance against targets.c . , c . a, c . ,   c . a, c . b   data & reporting frameworks our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly table of contents world in balance world of belonging  sasb index the sustainability accounting standards board (sasb) standards , now part of the international  financial reporting standards (ifrs) foundation, is a set of standards to guide the disclosure of  sustainability information by companies to their investors. the following index maps our disclosures  to certain sasb indicators. given our broad array of businesses that span multiple industries  around the globe, we have focused this year’s reporting on the recommended indicators for the  “media & entertainment” and “internet media & services” industries. where relevant, we also  highlight select information relevant to the “leisure facilities,” “hotels & lodging,” “restaurants,”  “cruise lines,” “apparel, accessories, and footwear,” and “toys & sporting goods” industries. as  our businesses continue to grow and evolve, we expect to advance and refine our disclosures over  time. metrics and disclosures are reported on an enterprise-wide level, unless otherwise indicated.  topic accounting metric(s) location/response sasb code greenhouse gas emissions gross global scope   emissions • fiscal   data table & data table footnotes, pp.  ,  ,   tr-cl- a.  discussion of long-term and short-term strategy  or plan to manage scope   emissions, emission  reduction targets, and an analysis of  performance against those targets•   environmental goals white paper •   cdp climate change survey responsetr-cl- a.  energy management ( ) total energy consumed,   ( ) percentage grid electricity, and   ( ) percentage renewable• ( ,  ,  ) fiscal   data table & data table footnotes, pp.  ,   tc-im- a. ;   sv-lf- a. ;   sv-hl- a. ;   fb-rn- a.  water management ( ) total water withdrawn, and   ( ) total water consumed, percentage of  each in regions with high or extremely high  baseline water stress• ( ,  ) fiscal   data table & data table footnotes, pp.  ,   • we are disclosing the total potable water consumption and total non-potable water consumption at this time and   will assess the expansion of our disclosures in future reporting.tc-im- a. ;   sv-hl- a. ;   fb-rn- a.  waste management ( ) total amount of waste,   ( ) percentage food waste, and   ( ) percentage diverted• ( ,  ) fiscal   data table & data table footnotes, pp.  ,  ,   • ( ) not reportedfb-rn- a.    data & reporting frameworks our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly table of contents world in balance world of belonging  sasb index (continued) topic accounting metric(s) location/response sasb code labor conditions   in the supply chainpercentage of   ( ) tier   supplier facilities and   ( ) supplier facilities beyond tier   that have  been audited to a labor code of conduct, and   ( ) percentage of total audits conducted by a  third-party auditor• ( ) fiscal   data table & data table footnotes, pp.  ,   • ( ) not reported • ( ) percentage of tier   audits conducted by a third-party auditor provided in fiscal   data table & data table footnotes, pp.  ,  cg-aa- b. ;  cg-ts- a.  priority nonconformance rate   and associated corrective action rate for  suppliers’ labor code of conduct audits• priority nonconformance rate was  % • priority nonconformance rate is defined as the percentage of audits with findings where facilities failed to meet twdc minimum   compliance standards. for more information, see the ils program manual .  • corrective action rate was  % • see ils program manual  for more information about expectations and timelines for corrective action.cg-aa- b. ;  cg-ts- a.  description of the greatest   ( ) labor and   ( ) environmental, health, and safety risks in  the supply chain• ( ,  ) supply chain assessments identify the most common risks to be in the areas of health and safety, overtime hours, and social  benefits; see fiscal   data table & data table footnotes, p.  . we understand that supply chain assessments may not fully  capture some underreported issues, including such issues as sexual harassment, forced labor, and interference with freedom of  association. we continue to explore additional methods for gaining such visibility. our supply chain policy commitments are  described in our ils progra m manual , human rights policy , conflict minerals policy , california transparency in supply chains  act, uk mod ern slavery act , and paper sourcing and use policy .cg-aa- b.  workforce diversity programs and policies for fostering  equitable employee representation across  global operations• world of belonging, pp.  –  ,   • fiscal   data table & data table footnotes, pp.  ,  ,   • standards of business conduct , p.    • reimagine tomorrow  digital destinationsv-me- a.  percentage of gender and racial/ethnic   group representation for   ( ) management,   ( ) professionals, and   ( ) all other employees• ( ,  ,  ) fiscal   data table & data table footnotes, pp.  ,  ,   • reimagine tomorrow  digital destinationtc-im- a.    data & reporting frameworks our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly table of contents world in balance world of belonging  sasb index (continued) topic accounting metric(s) location/response sasb code labor practices ( ) average hourly wage and   ( ) percentage of hourly employees earning  minimum wage• ( ,  ) fiscal   data table & data table footnotes, pp.  ,   sv-hl- a. ;   fb-rn- a.  description of policies and programs to  prevent worker harassment • standards of business conduct , pp.  – ,  –  sv-hl- a.  media pluralism description of policies and procedures to  ensuring pluralism in news media contentabc news is committed to diversity & inclusion. there are three pillars to abc news' diversity & inclusion efforts: • people—our people, at all levels, should reflect the life experiences of our audiences. this is reflected across all staffing levels,  correspondents, executives, managers, producers, writers, editors, and junior staff. • content—our work is relevant to a rapidly diversifying audience. this is reflected in the growth of content and story coverage  that focuses on the experiences and interests of diverse audiences at the intersection of race, politics, culture, and lifestyle. • culture—our environment promotes curiosity, innovation, and ideas from everyone. this is reflected in a number of initiatives,  including the news division–wide “everyday inclusion” program, relevant employee committees, and frequent diversity & inclusion  workshops and discussions programmed throughout the year. abc news’s commitment to the straightforward pursuit of truth drives all our work across platforms in established and new-and- emerging technologies. our success lies in our dedication to the highest-quality journalism, which means a commitment to fairness,  compelling storytelling, and, of utmost importance, uncompromising accuracy. we expect employees to approach their work with  rigor, to question thoroughly and skeptically, and to analyze deeply.  we continue to build on the exceptional legacy of abc news, upholding high standards in journalism, while also leading in  innovation. our editorial integrity and commitment to accuracy provide the foundation for the outstanding work that we do.sv-me- a.  journalistic integrity &  sponsorship identification (continued on next page)description of approach for   ensuring journalistic integrity of   news programming related to:   ( ) truthfulness, accuracy, objectiveness,  fairness, and accountability ( ) truthfulness, accuracy, objectivity, fairness, and accountability: it is the mission of abc news to inform the public on matters  of interest and importance to them. the credibility we have with our audience is essential to this mission and we, therefore, attach  great importance to the maintenance of our fairness and integrity—both real and perceived—as we gather and report the news.  company policies on business ethics, fairness, and insider trading apply to all employees in every division, and those policies are  particularly important to abc news employees. we share responsibility for maintaining our reputation for fairness and accuracy.  action that damages that reputation, or even gives the appearance of compromising it, harms both abc news and the individuals  involved. all employees of abc news are, therefore, required to abide by the letter and spirit of our policies and to be alert to  subtle efforts that could have the effect of compromising the integrity of abc news.sv-me- a.    data & reporting frameworks our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly table of contents world in balance world of belonging  sasb index (continued) topic accounting metric(s) location/response sasb code journalistic integrity &  sponsorship identification   (continued)( ) independence of content and/or  transparency of potential bias, and   ( ) protection of privacy and limitation   of harm( ) independence of content and/or transparency of potential bias: abc news employees are hired to report and record news  events, not to participate in them. news employees should remain professionally detached in all situations and not take action  that would be seen as favoring one side or the other. we take particular care to act in a neutral and professional manner where  the passions of others are engaged or aroused. we must all share an uncompromising commitment to accuracy and fairness in  reporting the news. we are committed to seeking out knowledgeable and credible sources of information, as well as reaching out  for and carefully evaluating comments from those accused of wrongdoing and others with relevant information and perspectives on  the matters that we are covering. when abc news covers stories about the walt disney company or other affiliated or subsidiary  companies, we make clear disclosures about the relationship. ( ) protection of privacy and limitation of harm: news staffers receive extensive guidance and training on privacy concerns and  other legal issues through legal and standards training sessions. and as a regular part of our newsgathering process, there are  targeted reporting meetings to discuss journalistic and legal issues. similarly, the mission of espn is to provide credible, timely, contextual, and trustworthy information. this mission is supported by  detailed editorial guidelines intended to protect espn’s journalistic credibility across platforms and with the oversight of the  espn editorial board. espn reviews its performance against these standards on an ongoing basis and regularly reviews and  provides training on guidelines for personnel. ultimately, every member of the espn editorial teams is responsible for upholding  the reputation and integrity of espn reporting.sv-me- a.  nutritional content number of advertising impressions made on  children, percentage promoting products that  meet national dietary guidelines for children• approximately  % of food and beverage advertising on our media platforms oriented to kids and families meets disney  nutrition guideline  standards. • disney nutrition guideline  standards are informed by national dietary guidelines and focus on limiting calories, fats, sugars,   and salt while promoting consumption of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, lean protein, and low-fat dairy.fb-rn- a.  data privacy description of policies and practices relating  to behavioral advertising and user privacy• we are committed to giving consumers transparency into our data collection and use practices and having robust controls over  how we use that data. our privacy policy describes how consumers’ information is collected and used, as well as the very limited  circumstances under which consumer data may be shared with third parties. that policy also contains information about choices  consumers must make to limit the use of their data for targeted advertising and direct marketing purposes. links to the privacy  policy, as well as the control mechanisms for limiting targeted advertising, can be found on our privacy center .tc-im- a.  number of users whose information is used  for secondary purposes• as described above, we are committed to giving consumers notice about how their data will be used, and we only share data  with third parties in very limited circumstances, such as when the consumer gives their consent or where the third party is acting  as our service provider. accordingly, we do not have a policy of using consumers’ data for secondary purposes.tc-im- a.  data security standards description of approach to identifying and  addressing data security risks, including use of  third-party guidelines for children• our approach to cybersecurity is addressed in the operating responsibly section of this report on p.  , and in greater detail in  our information security management system  document online.fb-rn- a.    data & reporting frameworks our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly table of contents world in balance world of belonging  sasb index (continued) topic accounting metric(s) location/response sasb code intellectual property  protection & media piracydescription of approach to ensuring  intellectual property (ip) protection• disney strives to foster a culture that values intellectual property protection to promote creativity, storytelling, and innovation,   as well as maintain consumer trust. we engage in practices that protect disney’s intellectual property, including our brands,  characters, and content. we also respect the intellectual property rights of others and do not knowingly use the intellectual  property of third parties without appropriate rights. disney also requires all contributors to respect third-party intellectual   property rights. we have also implemented internal intellectual property policies and trainings to increase awareness and   respect for intellectual property rights among all disney employees.sv-me- a.  households reached by broadcast tv • the walt disney company fiscal year    -k , p.   sv-me- .a subscribers to cable networks • the walt disney company fiscal year    -k , pp.  ,   sv-me- .a subscribers to streaming services  (“entity-defined measure of user activity”)• the walt disney company fiscal year    -k , p.   tc-im- .a total number of media productions and  publications produced• the walt disney company fiscal year    -k , pp.  –  • our film library includes content from approximately   years of production history, as well as acquired film libraries, and  totals approximately  ,  live-action titles and   animation titles. the library includes approximately   movies and  approximately   series that the studios group produced for initial distribution on our dtc platforms. our television  programming library includes content from approximately   years of production history. series with four or more seasons  include approximately   one-hour dramas,   half-hour comedies,   half-hour non-scripted series,   one-hour non-scripted  series,   half-hour animated series, and   half-hour live-action series. the library includes approximately   series produced  for initial distribution on our dtc platforms.sv-me- .b number of manufacturing facilities,  percentage outsourced• number of manufacturing facilities provided in fiscal   data table & data table footnotes, pp.  ,   cg-ts- .b number of available room-nights • the walt disney company fiscal year    -k , p.   sv-hl- .a average occupancy rate • the walt disney company fiscal year    -k , p.   sv-hl- .b number of lodging facilities and the  percentage that are:   ( ) managed,   ( ) owned and leased, and/or   ( ) franchised• ( ,  ) the walt disney company fiscal year    -k , pp.  –  • ( ) n/a • five of the hotels located in shanghai and hong kong are owned via a joint venture where our ownership is less than  %. • disney vacation club offers ownership interest in   resort facilities, which are operated as hotel rooms when not occupied by  vacation club members.sv-hl- .d   data & reporting frameworks our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly table of contents world in balance world of belonging  sdg indicators the united nations sustainable development  goals (sdgs)  are a collection of   global goals  intended to provide a shared blueprint to achieve  a better and more sustainable future for all. the  following table provides select examples of how  our corporate social responsibility programs  support most of the sdgs.un sdg     no poverty • we have worked with unicef for many years,  and when the humanitarian crisis began in  ukraine, we leveraged our media platforms to  support unicef in helping families displaced  by the conflict. abc news coverage and on-air  mentions across our networks drove thousands  of viewers to unicef’s website, raising more   than $  million in a few weeks. • in fiscal  , in addition to supporting   feeding america  member food banks to help increase access to fresh produce for  communities that need it most, disney also supported feeding  america’s efforts in response to hurricane ian. in addition, disney  continues to help alleviate food insecurity by supporting hunger  relief organizations worldwide. for example, in latin america,  disney supports the work of the global food banking network  and the efforts of food banks in argentina, brazil, chile,  colombia, and mexico.un sdg     good health & well-being • disney institute  has trained more than   ,  hospital workers since  . in fiscal   , experts from disney institute  again held  multiple training sessions for kk women and  children’s hospital (kkh) based in singapore.  the course focused on training hospital staff to  create compassionate connections and meaningful moments  with patients through three service principles: serve with heart,  reach higher, and own it. more than  ,  kkh employees  and leaders from multiple departments were in attendance. • we continue to offer our employee assistance program (eap),  which is available to all employees, cast members, and their  family and household members. our eap provides  /   support and connects participants directly to a licensed  network therapist at no cost. • disney hosted our first global well-being week in  ,  spotlighting the wide-ranging physical, mental, and financial  benefits we offer while providing employees with easy ways  to take advantage of the benefits.  • in  , disney continued to promote our new center for  living well—gaea center for gynecology, maternity, and  fertility—in orlando. the center provides employees, cast  members, and their partners with comprehensive, connected,  and compassionate care to help navigate their family- building journeys. • we are intentional about how we promote healthy foods and  beverages to kids through our nutrition guideline policy . these  guidelines apply to our studio promotions, food and beverage  licensing, third-party advertising on our kids’ networks, and   kids’ meals in disney parks. ongoing reviews of these global  guidelines help us reflect up-to-date dietary guidance and  consider the evolving social and scientific understanding of  children’s physical and digital lives. in fiscal  , we continued  to have approximately  % of food and beverage advertising  on our owned and controlled media platforms oriented to kids  and families meet our nutrition guideline policy.un sdg     quality education • we made a $  million contribution to  exceptional minds  in fiscal   to help  source, skill, scale, support, and sustain  neurodiverse talent over the next three  years. our funds will be used for  scholarships, academy faculty, career  support services, and facilities and technology. • in fiscal  , we launched disney future storytellers,  disney’s commitment to empowering the next generation  of storytellers and innovators. from charitable grants and  programs that provide inspiration and hands-on experience in  arts and science, technology, engineering, and math (stem)  education for school-age children, to scholarships, mentoring,  and creative and technical skill-building for teens and young  adults, disney is increasing access to careers in the media,  entertainment, technology, and hospitality industries for youth,  especially for individuals from historically underrepresented or  underserved communities. • in fiscal  , we donated more than   million books to   first book, and since   we’ve distributed more than    million books, to help inspire the next generation of  storytellers. we also collaborated with blue star families to  host the  th blue star books  event with a reading by first  lady dr. jill biden. the event was part of the white house’s  joining forces initiative to support military and veteran  families, caregivers, and survivors. • in fiscal  , we worked with care india to empower   ,  adolescent girls across   schools in mumbai,  helping them realize their potential to lead a better life.   the program has established   vibrant community  learning centers that give girls a space outside of school to  learn and hone their vocational skills. we also worked with  the parivaar education society in india to support   girls  with education, boarding, food, medical assistance, sports  and recreation, clothing, and more.   data & reporting frameworks our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly table of contents world in balance world of belonging  sdg indicators (continued) un sdg     gender equality •  % of our   director nominees  are women. • in fiscal  , women represented  % of our  employees worldwide, based on self-reported  information. • in fiscal  , we worked with care india to empower   ,  adolescent girls across   schools in mumbai, helping  them realize their potential to lead a better life. the program  has established   vibrant community learning centers that  give girls a space outside of school to learn and hone their  vocational skills. we also worked with the parivaar education  society in india to support   girls with education, boarding,  food, medical assistance, sports and recreation, clothing,  and more. • in fiscal  , we launched two new cohorts of the  women’s talent network to enhance careers for asian  american & pacific islander and latina employees. one  hundred participants joined the pilot across both programs.un sdg     clean water & sanitation • in  , we continued to implement site- specific water conservation strategies at our  theme parks and resorts, including using  artificial turf and implementing a sophisticated  irrigation control system at disneyland resort  as part of drought-fighting efforts.  • disneyland paris is in the process of retrofitting the  showerheads in two hotels with new led-lit technology   heads that allow guests to adjust their use to help conserve  water. the turbine-powered led lights change color based   on the amount of water used, moving from blue to green,  yellow, and eventually red when water use exceeds a certain  volume. in a pilot, the new showerheads reduced water use   by an average of  % per room. • we are identifying critical regional water issues and are  continuing to collaborate with local stakeholders, such as  industry and nonprofit organizations, to safeguard the overall  health of watersheds as a multiuse sustainable resource.   for example, we support wwf-hong kong’s project to foster  innovative approaches, such as the use of water buffalo, to  conserve wetlands in the shui hau watershed and increase   water security for local people and wildlife. we also support  the nature conservancy’s work in central florida, including  efforts to address growing freshwater demands, enhance water  quality, improve water supply, and reduce flood risks through  green stormwater infrastructure. • our approach to sustainable design helps contribute to  cleaner air, more efficient use of water, and less waste for the  communities in which we operate.un sdg     affordable & clean energy • as of fiscal  , we commissioned or  announced more than   megawatts of  solar capacity. • in collaboration with the utility serving walt  disney world resort, two  -megawatt solar  facilities are expected to come online and are  projected to bring the resort’s renewable energy   consumption up to nearly  % of its annual total power use.  • disneyland paris is continuing the construction of  approximately   acres of solar canopies, which will provide  shade and shelter to more than  ,  parking spaces and are  estimated to generate approximately   gigawatt hours of  electricity once fully operational. • hong kong disneyland has embarked on the next phase of  one of the largest solar panel sites in hong kong, installed   at   different attractions and buildings. • select operations subscribe to high-credibility green power  programs that advance the decarbonization of disney and our  local communities. for example, pixar is subscribed to  %  renewable electricity through east bay community energy.un sdg     decent work & economic growth • since  , disney has contributed more  than $  million through our supply chain  investment program (scip)  to   unique  programs in more than   countries,  directly benefiting  ,  workers  and supporting tools that have reached and  benefited   million additional workers. • our international labor standards (ils) program is informed  by disney’s standards of business conduct , human rights  policy  (which was updated in  ), and supply chain  code of conduct , along with a range of other responsible  business expectations. • disney aspire pays  % of tuition up front at network  schools and is available to ~ ,  eligible hourly full-time  and part-time employees and cast members in the united  states. as of the end of fiscal  , ~ ,  employees were  enrolled in disney aspire. • in fiscal  , approximately  .  million employee learning  sessions were taken online or in person through d learn,  harvard spark, harvard managementor, and harvard leading  edge—our top learning platforms. • we increased our mentoring programs from   to   across  disney in fiscal  . enrollment in these programs  increased by  % and mentoring hours increased by  %  from fiscal  . • in fiscal  , to reward the important contributions of   certain job levels below the executive level, disney expanded  eligibility for participation in our annual bonus plan.   data & reporting frameworks our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly table of contents world in balance world of belonging  sdg indicators (continued) un sdg      reduced inequalities • in fiscal  , ~ % of our charitable   giving was directed to programs supporting   under represented communities.  • disney pledged $  million to organizations  serving the lgbtqia+ community through  support for inclusive and respectful workplaces and authentic  representation of lgbtqia+ in media and entertainment. • now in its second year, disney on the yard  continues to build   a community for alumni from historically black colleges and  universities (hbcus) and provides meaningful opportunities  for hbcu students who dream of one day working in the  entertainment field. we also joined the propel center (an  education hub for hbcus) as a lead sponsor, and created the  disney storytellers fund at howard university and florida  a&m university. additionally, we continued our long- standing work with united negro college fund (uncf)   and announced the   disney uncf corporate scholars. • our heroes work here initiative celebrated its    th anniversary  in   and has resulted in more   than  ,  veterans being hired across the company  through the end of  . • in fiscal  , we worked with kulturecity, a leading  nonprofit focused on sensory accessibility and acceptance,  to launch sensory-inclusive screenings that cater to  audiences with sensory needs, such as autism. • espn continued to support the special olympics usa games.  in fiscal  , more than  ,  athletes and coaches from all    states and the caribbean united for a week of competition,  sportsmanship, and fun at the at espn wide world of sports  complex at walt disney world. • our   workforce diversity dashboard ,   content  representation dashboard ,   eeo-  report , and our pay  ratio disclosure  are available online. • in fiscal  , we spent more than $  million with   diverse suppliers, an increase of almost  % compared to  fiscal  . disney has also increased company-wide  spending with u.s. veteran– and veteran spouse–owned  businesses to approximately $ .  million in  .un sdg     sustainable cities & communities • in fiscal  , we gave a total of ~$  million  in cash and in-kind charitable contributions. • through our disney voluntears program, our  employees and cast members worldwide have  collectively contributed nearly   million hours  of service to their communities since the  program was started nearly   years ago. • in fiscal  , our disaster relief support included hurricane   ian recovery efforts , addressing the impacts of wildfires in  argentina, supporting children and families in ukraine, and  providing short-term monetary assistance to employees  experiencing hardships—including those impacted by  hurricane ian—through the employee relief fund. • our approach to sustainable design helps contribute to   cleaner air, more efficient use of water, and less waste for   the communities in which we operate.un sdg     responsible consumption & production • in fiscal  , we diverted  % of total company  operational waste from landfills and incineration. • disney cruise line intends to be free of   single-use plastics by  . examples include  introducing alternatives to plastic merchandise  bags and guest laundry bags, disposable cutlery,  cold beverage lids, and even plastic drink garnish sticks. in  addition, to encourage the use of reusable water bottles, refill  stations have been installed on all ships and castaway cay.  • in  , we introduced a new requirement prohibiting the use  of per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances—known as pfas—in  consumer products developed, sourced, and distributed by a  disney entity. • disneyland paris offered guests limited-edition tote bags,   duffel bags, briefcases, and pouches for purchase, which were  made from a recycled tarp that previously covered sleeping  beauty castle  during renovation work. • our product integrity function oversees disney’s safety policies,  procedures, and operating requirements for physical products  containing disney intellectual property across the enterprise.  disney requires that licensees and vendors contractually commit  to follow sensible, reasonable, and proper procedures for verifying  that disney-branded products comply with applicable safety  regulatory requirements and any additional requirements that  may be specified by disney. we also have policies to manage the  use of chemicals in products, and in fiscal   we updated our  supply chain code of conduct to include “quality and safety.”un sdg     climate action • we are committed to achieving net zero   ghg emissions for direct operations by  ,  including reducing our absolute scope   and  scope   ghg emissions by  . % by  ,  against a   baseline.  • we are committed to reducing scope   emissions in line  with a “well below  °c” scenario by  . • the disney wish  set sail in fiscal   and was designed   to be among the most energy-efficient cruise ships on the  water. the disney wish  was primarily powered by liquefied  natural gas in fiscal  , which, when compared   to traditional diesel or marine fuel, significantly reduces  several emissions and pollutants. • in fiscal  , abc news’ dedicated climate unit  highlighted people and organizations making an impact   in hidden climate heroes  and took an in-depth look at the  causes and risks of climate change in a monthlong series,  climate crisis: saving tomorrow . the unit also teamed up  with teen vogue  to explore teenagers’ growing concerns  about climate change and the effects on their mental health. • through national geographic, disneynature, and our other  content platforms, disney enjoys a rich and growing library  of programming that connects audiences with the wonders  of our natural world and inspires action to create a cleaner,  safer, and healthier planet. in  , our broad portfolio of  nature-focused stories included disneynature’s polar bear   and national geographic’s explorer: the last tepui , secrets  of the whales , and the biggest little farm: the return .    see footnote   on p.  .   see footnote   on p.  .   data & reporting frameworks our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly table of contents world in balance world of belonging  sdg indicators (continued) un sdg     life below water • responsible selection and sourcing of  seafood is important to our business, to  the livelihoods of the fishing industry  worldwide, and to the health of the planet  for future generations. in fiscal  , our  u.s. parks, resorts, and cruise line sourced  nearly  % sustainable seafood.  • disney conservation team wildlife has provided leadership  and expertise to support the orlando-based florida coral  rescue center. this state-of-the-art facility was established  for gene banking and care of florida corals rescued from  reefs not yet affected by stony coral tissue loss disease,  which has put   coral species at risk of extinction. in april   , the first reported spawning of rough cactus coral in  human care took place at the center. • as part of the $  million we have invested since     to help sea turtle conservation efforts globally, in    , the disney conservation fund supported a new  mentorship and career training program hosted by the  sea turtle conservancy to spark passion for sea turtle  conservation among central florida youth from diverse   and underserved communities. • in fiscal  , our sea turtle efforts reached an important  milestone. disney conservation team wildlife celebrated    .  million sea turtles hatched from nests monitored by   our team at disney’s vero beach resort since  . • several of our businesses supported beach cleanup events  in fiscal  . in honor of world ocean day on june  th,    disney voluntears and family members took part in   a beach cleanup in guangzhou, china. for international  volunteer day, voluntears from shanghai disney resort  supported beach cleanup in chongming island, shanghai.un sdg     life on land • disney conservation fund has invested more  than $  million—along with the expertise   of dedicated teams—in community-led  biodiversity conservation efforts since   to  help protect more than  ,  species of wildlife  and safeguard more than   million acres of habitat—an  amount equal to more than  ,  walt disney world resorts. • to help increase the western monarch butterfly population,  more than   disney voluntears across the united states  planted butterfly-friendly backyard environments in  . • our disney team based in india began supporting wildlife  sos’s efforts in   and continued support throughout    to rescue and rehabilitate elephants illegally taken from the  wild. to date, more than   elephants have been given care   and medical treatment at wildlife sos’s elephant hospital and  elephant conservation and care centre, established in    and the first center of its kind in northern india. • at disney’s animal kingdom theme park, we celebrated the  birth of the  th white rhino born at walt disney world resort— an important milestone made possible by the dedication and  care of disney scientists, veterinarians, and keepers. • in december  , disney’s animal kingdom celebrated the   st birthday of gino, the oldest western-lowland gorilla at  walt disney world resort. he is one of the first gorillas in the  world to allow his caretakers to perform cardiac ultrasounds  without anesthesia, an important step in the advancement of  care for his species, and more broadly for animal care and  gorilla conservation globally. • national geographic has been actively caring about our  planet for well over a century. today, national geographic  partners—a joint venture between the walt disney company  and nonprofit national geographic society—continues this  legacy. we return  % of the net proceeds from our national  geographic lines of business to fund conservation, education,  and sustainability projects.un sdg     peace, justice & strong institutions • we strive to conduct our business in accordance  with high standards of business ethics and comply  with applicable laws, rules, and regulations  wherever we operate.  • our standards of business conduct  apply to  all employees and provide resources and tools  to promote ethical conduct and compliance with the law.  our board of directors is also held accountable to these  principles, as well as our code of business conduct and   ethics for directors .un sdg     partnerships for the goals • we maintain relationships with the  stakeholders and communities we serve  through ongoing dialogue. we work with a  variety of stakeholders representing diverse  perspectives—including consumers,  employees, industry and business  collaborators, nonprofit and social impact organizations, and  shareholders—as we believe this can enhance our ability to  identify opportunities and, in some cases, solutions to some  of our most pressing challenges. we also engage on policy  issues both directly and through industry associations on  issues relevant to our businesses. ongoing and responsive  engagement with key stakeholders continues to inform our  csr strategy, goals, and initiatives. • we collaborate with several initiatives and organizations   to address environmental and social priorities. see p.     and p.   for examples.   see footnote   on p.  .   data & reporting frameworks our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly table of contents world in balance world of belonging  forward-looking statements certain statements in this communication may be deemed  to be “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of  the federal private securities litigation reform act of   , including statements regarding our plans; beliefs;  expectations; continuation or future execution of initiatives,  programs, activities, policies, or disclosures; strategies;  goals; objectives; intentions; commitments; pledges;  priorities; targets; and other statements that are not  historical in nature. these statements are made on the  basis of management’s views and assumptions regarding  future events and business performance as of the time the  statements are made. management does not undertake  any obligation to update these statements. actual results   may differ materially from those expressed or implied. such  differences may result from actions taken by the company,  including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including  capital investments, asset acquisitions or dispositions,  integration initiatives, new or expanded business lines, or  cessation of certain operations), our execution of our  business plans (including the content we create and ip we  invest in, our pricing decisions, our cost structure and our  management and other personnel decisions), or other  business decisions, as well as from developments beyond  the company’s control, including: • further deterioration in domestic and global   economic conditions; • deterioration in or pressures from competitive  conditions, including competition to create or   acquire content and competition for talent; • consumer behavior and consumer preferences and  acceptance of our content, offerings, pricing model   and price increases, and the market for advertising  sales on our dtc services and linear networks; • health concerns and their impact on our   businesses and productions; • global economy-wide transitions and availability   of economically feasible solutions;• international, regulatory, political, legal,   or military developments; • technological developments; • labor markets and activities; • adverse weather conditions or natural   disasters and environmental developments; and • availability of content. each such risk includes the current and future   impacts of, and is amplified by, covid-  and related  mitigation efforts. such developments may further  affect entertainment, travel, and leisure businesses  generally and may, among other things, affect   (or further affect, as applicable): • our operations, business plans, or profitability;  • demand for our products and services; • the performance of the company’s content; • our ability to create or obtain desirable content   at or under the value we assign the content;  • the advertising market for programming; • construction; • income tax expense;  • expenses of providing medical and pension   benefits; and • performance of some or all company   businesses, either directly or through their   impact on those who distribute our products. additional factors are set forth in the company’s   annual report on form  -k for the year ended  october  ,  , including under the captions “risk  factors,” “management’s discussion and analysis,” and  “business”; quarterly reports on form  -q, including  under the captions “risk factors” and “management’s  discussion and analysis of financial condition and  results of operations”; and subsequent filings with   the securities and exchange commission.   data & reporting frameworks our approach introduction world of hope investing in our people operating responsibly table of contents world in balance world of belonging  learn more: environmental  social governance  report       netflix esg report   table of  contents introduction  a letter from our c o-ceos   about netflix   our approach to esg   our progress   environment   sustainability strategy   sustainability in our operations and value chain    netting remaining emissions to zero   sustainability in storytelling   climate risk   social   inclusion and diversity   responsible products   governance   corporate governance   enterprise risk   ip protection and data piracy   ethics and compliance   appendix   environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report   a letter from our co-ceos  at netflix, we aspire to entertain the world — and to do so sustainably and  responsibly. you can read the full details of how  in our fourth  environmental, social and corporate governance (esg) report published  today. but we wanted to highlight three areas upfront:  first , the environment:  the next decade is critical if we’re to manage  climate change sustainably. it’s why netflix has committed to halving our  emissions by  . we will do this by optimizing our energy use, then  electrifying it and decarbonizing the rest.  second , inclusion:  netflix is becoming more representative of the  members we serve. we now have offices in over   countries. almost half  of our employees are women and, in the us,  % are from historically  excluded ethnic and/or racial backgrounds. we’re also seeing increased  representation on and off screen — with significantly more female directors  and showrunners, and more people of color in leading roles.  third , governance: our business model is well proven and netflix is a  leader in streaming entertainment in terms of engagement, revenue and  profit. so we’re evolving to a more standard large-cap governance  structure, including the phased declassification of our board, the  elimination of supermajority voting provisions and changes to our  executive compensation program from   onwards. over the last   years, we’ve worked hard to create long term value for our  stakeholders — in particular members, shareholders and the creative  community. while we’ve made good progress, there’s still more to do. for  example, most of our carbon emissions come from our productions, which  require a lot of power — often in remote locations — and are still heavily  fossil fuel dependent. but we’re investing in the technology innovations  today that can optimize and electrify this energy use tomorrow.  we are excited about the great entertainment coming this year — from  returning favorites like our emmy award winning series the crown   and recently released hit action sequel extraction   , starring chris  hemsworth, to must-watch new films and tv shows such as heart of  stone , rebel moon , griselda  and   body problem . our north stars remain  the variety and quality of our entertainment — and, as always, we welcome  your feedback.  ted sarandos  co-chief executive officer  and president of the  company and director greg peters  co-chief executive officer  and president of the  company and director  environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report   at netflix, we aspire to entertain the world —  so whatever your taste, and wherever you live,  we’ll have something great to watch or play, all  in one subscription. about netflix  ¹ as of december  ,  ,     annual report (form  -k)  environment governance social introduction appendix  our approach to esg  our environmental, social and governance (esg) framework is  informed by relevant reporting frameworks — including  sustainability accounting standard board (sasb), global reporting  initiative (gri) and task force on climate-related financial  disclosures (tcfd). the netflix board of directors oversees the company’s esg  efforts and receives regular updates from management in these  areas. for this report, we focus on the following topics:  environment, social and governance.  environment social  inclusion and diversity  supporting our people  responsible products  governance  corporate governance  enterprise risk management  ethics and compliance  intellectual property protection  sustainability strategy  climate risk  sustainability on and off screen    netflix esg report   environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report     all data points are for the   calendar year unless otherwise noted.    “value added” is a term used by sbti. for netflix, this is synonymous with “gross profit,” derived from subtracting “cost of revenues” from “total revenue” for the   business, per our public financial statements.  environment  we are on track to meet our public sustainability commitments —  including to: ( ) halve our emissions by   from a   baseline; and  ( ) bring our remaining net emissions from   onwards to zero.  ● we upgraded our scope   target to reduce these emissions  %   per million usd of value added  by  .  ● starting in  , we’ve brought net scope  ,   and   emissions  to zero  by investing in nature-based solutions that retain and  capture carbon.  we continue to focus on decarbonizing film and series production.  over the course of  :  ● we’ve used clean technologies on over  %  of the  productions netflix manages directly; and  ● we’ve committed to use at least one electric vehicle (ev) on  screen in all of our directly managed productions, and our  “everybody in” partnership with gm  will also help promote  their use.  we support creators who choose to incorporate sustainability into  their storytelling.   million households around the world — over   % of our members  — have chosen to watch one or more stories  highlighting climate and/or sustainability. and we spotlight these  stories during moments like earth month. our progress  see below for a glimpse, or “highlights reel”, of our continued progress in   on environmental, social and governance topics.  environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report     more information about how the usc annenberg inclusion initiative defines this term is available in their full report  about the study.   our progress  see below for a glimpse, or “highlights reel”, of our continued progress in   on environmental, social and governance topics. social  as our third inclusion report showed:  in addition, we continue to invest in the netflix fund for creative   equity , which helps increase opportunities within the  entertainment industry.  our employee giving program provides a  :  match on employee  donations. in  , netflix and our employees donated $   million  to over  ,  charities worldwide.  we have now added disclosures about product accessibility to our  esg report given the importance of ensuring that all of our  members — regardless of language, device, connectivity or ability  — can enjoy our entertainment. ● women have the highest gender representation  at  netflix; and  ● over  % of our us employees are from one  or more historically excluded ethnic and/or racial backgrounds.  in april  , the usc annenberg inclusion initiative published their  latest study  into representation behind and in front of the camera for  netflix’s us films and series. it showed notable improvements for  women and people from historically underrepresented racial and  ethnic groups  between   and  . environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    governance our progress  see below for a glimpse, or “highlights reel”, of our continued progress in   on environmental, social and governance topics. at our   annual meeting, stockholders approved a board  proposal to make significant changes  to our corporate  governance, including: we’ve also adopted a majority voting standard in uncontested  director elections and evolved our co-ceo compensation  program for  . this includes: a ceo salary cap;  performance-based annual cash bonus; and a minimum  % of  compensation allocated to stock options with one year vesting.  in the last year, netflix executives have met shareholders  representing around  %  of our outstanding shares to solicit  their feedback. independent directors participated in a majority  of these meetings.    ● a phased declassification of our board beginning in  .  from  , our entire board will stand for  annual elections;  ● the elimination of supermajority voting provisions in our  articles of incorporation and bylaws; and  ● the ability for shareholders to call special meetings. environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report   to entertain the world, we need a habitable planet to  entertain. we’re working to make our operations  more sustainable, including behind the camera, and  to support creators who want to highlight  sustainability on screen. environment  environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report   sustainability strategy  key is decarbonizing our operations and value chain, which  includes the making of our films and series. to help us meet this  challenge, we created an advisory group, including scientists and  other experts. this group is unpaid and entirely independent (full  list available at sustainability.netflix.com ).  sustainability strategy sustainability in our operations and value chain netting remaining emissions to zero sustainability in storytelling  the science is clear — the next decade is critical  if we are to  manage climate change sustainably. in march of  , we set two   near-term  climate targets aligned with consensus climate science  that can be measured in years, not decades: our public climate targets  reduce our emissions by roughly half by   ; and     bring our remaining net emissions from   onwards to zero , in  support of global net zero goals, by investing in nature-based solutions  that retain and capture carbon . when we first set our emissions targets, we aligned to the science  based targets initiative (sbti) standard for scope   “supplier  engagement” targets . after working to improve our scope   data,  we submitted an upgraded quantitative “intensity” target  aligned to  current sbti standards for validation in  . the new target, which  has now been approved by the sbti, is to reduce scope   emissions   % per million usd of value added  by  .    netflix previously had a science-based target to engage  % of suppliers to set their own  science-based targets.    netflix’s intensity scope   target was approved by sbti on feb  ,   (see “companies taking action”  on the sbti website ). our validated scope   and   target remains unchanged from  .    “value added” is a term used by sbti. for netflix, this is synonymous with “gross profit,” derived from  subtracting “cost of revenues” from “total revenue” for the business, per our public financial statements. climate risk  environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    scope    “fuel”  scope    “electricity”   scope    “value chain” energy  efficiency electric  vehicles clean mobile  power  energy  efficiency renewable  energy supplier  incentives  demand  signaling technology  accelerators educational  offerings netflix emission reduction actions target terminology   % by    absolute reduction   % by    intensity reduction  (million $ value added) our “sphere of  control”  absolute  reduction goal  our “sphere of  influence”  intensity  reduction goal  decarbonization target    scope  : fuel consumed for our self managed productions, company-owned transportation and building heating    scope  : electricity we purchase for our open connect systems and in our facilities and self-managed productions    scope  : emissions related to value chain activities such as purchased goods & services, capital goods, business travel and others sustainability strategy sustainability in our operations and value chain netting remaining emissions to zero sustainability in storytelling   climate risk environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    our sustainability strategy is aligned with the iso net zero  guidelines (iwa  : ) developed by the international   organization for standardization , which recently published a  testimonial  about netflix . these guidelines, which are designed to  be universally applicable, were developed with input from over   ,  global experts from  + countries , and among other  criteria, require: alignment with iso netzero guidelines  emissions reduction:  taking immediate action to maintain the  climate at  .  degree celsius  — i.e., approximately halving global  emissions by the end of the decade and achieving global net zero by    at the latest.  counterbalancing residual emissions:  investing in nature-based  solutions that retain and capture carbon   from the atmosphere,  proportional to a company's “residual” emissions . learn more  about how we are aligned in our carbon credit investments here .  wider impact : engage value chain stakeholders, collaborate and  share knowledge, and participate in relevant advocacy on behalf of  bringing global emissions to zero and promoting a just transition.  learn more about how we are aligned on the broader societal  impact here .netflix’s sustainability strategy is music to our ears. we are   delighted to see netflix apply the same positive disruption   to sustainability that they’ve applied to their business, upping   the ambition for achieving near-term net zero targets and   harnessing the power of storytelling to educate and   entertain citizens.  christiana figueres,  diplomat and architect of the u.n. paris agreement  the carbon trust, a respected think tank, found these iso net  zero guidelines to be the most comprehensively aligned  to to the  goals of cop  .   including participants from the greenhouse gas protocol, sbti, un framework convention on climate change,  and un race to zero teams.    we are working with iso to ensure understanding this element of their guidelines because of the limited volume of  high quality carbon removal credits available today, and the ipcc’s latest report  shows that the mitigation options  with the greatest potential global contribution to net emission reduction by   are “avoidance” projects.    the iso net zero guidelines define residual emissions as: emissions that remain on an annual basis after all efforts  to reduce along a  .  °c pathway within value-chain or boundary emissions have been implemented. sustainability strategy sustainability in our operations and value chain netting remaining emissions to zero sustainability in storytelling   climate risk environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    to meet these objectives we are focused on four key levers :climate transition plan  energy efficiency : identifying cost-effective efficiency  improvements for energy used in our offices and studios;  vehicle electrification : transitioning from vehicles that use fossil  fuels to fully electric and/or hydrogen powered alternatives;  clean mobile power : using alternatives to diesel generators on  productions; and  renewable energy : using renewable electricity and fuels. we approach these four levers using an oed framework — i.e., first  optimizing energy use, then electrifying it and decarbonizing the rest.  ● optimize (o) : we are conducting energy efficiency audits,  including for our stages, studios and offices, so we can optimize  vehicle fleet operations, right-size vehicles and mobile power  and give preference to more efficient equipment.  ● electrify (e): we are working to electrify the equipment that  uses the most fuel, like vehicles, buildings and generators.  where available, we use electric motors, which are more  efficient and because electricity is more easily decarbonized.  we’ve successfully piloted the use of mobile batteries and  hydrogen-battery powered generators in lieu of fossil-fuel  powered generators in our productions. and we are also  replacing fossil-fuel vehicles with electric, plug-in hybrid and  hybrid vehicles.  ● decarbonize (d) : when optimization and electrification aren’t  possible, we decarbonize the remaining emissions by installing  and purchasing renewable energy. this means matching  renewable electricity to any grid-connected power that isn’t  carbon-free and shifting to lower-carbon or zero-carbon fuel  options when that isn’t possible. last year, we procured  renewable electricity to match our global electricity demand and  we’re exploring more direct investments.  sustainability strategy sustainability in our operations and value chain netting remaining emissions to zero sustainability in storytelling  sustainability in  our operations  and value chain climate risk environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    maximizing the solutions available today, while accelerating the  market for tomorrow’s solutions, is also imperative.  while energy  efficiency and renewable energy solutions are cost-effective and  can be deployed at scale now, clean mobile power and evs are  more nascent technologies. as a result they will deliver most of  their respective emissions reductions for netflix in the latter half of this decade. refer to the energy efficiency, renewable energy  and clean mobile power sections below. each year, we continually  develop and further refine our   science-based target  transition strategy. the following chart illustrates our current  planned path to our scope   and   target, and the decarbonization  levers that will get us there.  renewable energy:  electricity and fuel electric vehicles clean mobile power energy efficiency and  behavior change science-based  target:  ,   forecasted  ,  sustainability strategy sustainability in our operations and value chain netting remaining emissions to zero sustainability in storytelling   climate risk environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    we measured our   greenhouse gas emissions (i.e., carbon  footprint) using the greenhouse gas protocol . this helps us  understand our largest sources of emissions and the biggest  opportunities we have to reduce them. our independent  accountants, ernst & young (ey), reviewed our   scope  ,    and   greenhouse gas emissions (location- and market-based).  their report and assurance letter is here .our carbon footprint    refer to the appendix  for details about our greenhouse gas emissions inventory methodology, footprint  boundaries and data management process. our footprint, reductions and related data are represented in four  separate tables throughout the environment section of this report:  greenhouse gas inventory including our corporate  greenhouse gas data from   through  .    emission reductions summary table shows our  quantified reductions from the range of measures we  have put in place to track progress towards our  science-based target.    carbon credit portfolio shows the carbon credits  we purchased and retired for  .    electricity consumption summary shows our  electricity consumption and renewable electricity. sustainability strategy sustainability in our operations and value chain netting remaining emissions to zero sustainability in storytelling   climate risk environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    greenhouse gas inventory  scope    scope    (market-based)  scope    (location-based)  scope    (target-based)  scope  +   (market-based)  scope  +   (target-based)  scope    (market-based)  total  (market-based)  carbon credits   ,       ,    ,    ,    ,    , ,    , ,   ( , )   ,       ,    ,    ,    ,    , ,    , ,   ( , )   ,      ,    ,    ,    ,    , ,    , ,   ( , , )   ,      ,    ,    ,    ,    , ,    , ,   ( , , )    mtco e   mtco e   mtco e   mtco e biogenic emissions  renewable fuels  (e.g., renewable diesel,  sustainable aviation fuel)    mtco e:     mtco e:     mtco e:  ,     mtco e:  ,  sustainability strategy sustainability in our operations and value chain netting remaining emissions to zero sustainability in storytelling   climate risk environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    over half of our emissions (all scopes) are related to the  production and licensing of films, series and games  (“production”). the second largest source of emissions is in  our corporate operations (“corporate”), followed by our data  center providers (“streaming”). carbon footprint components  netflix’s    carbon footprint  by business  activity  %   %  % streaming  production  corporate emissions reductions  we track progress against our scope   and   emissions target using  target-based emissions figures noted in the carbon footprint table  above. target-based emissions only account for emissions  reductions resulting from specific decarbonization actions and those  related to direct renewable energy supply (e.g., onsite generation,  utility and landlord supply, power purchase agreements or direct  investments), but not for emissions reductions resulting from our  annual purchase of renewable energy certificates (or environmental  attribute certificates). tracking progress against our    science-based target  ●   scope   and   emissions are  % lower  year-over-    year, though they remain slightly higher than our    baseline year due to growth in the business.  ● the combined impact of our emissions reductions initiatives  across our four priority levers in   resulted in a  %  lower scope   and   footprint value than would have  otherwise been reported.  ● the vast majority of our emission reductions still come from  renewable energy and renewable fuels. transitioning from  diesel to electric will take time to scale to a level that will  have a measurable impact on emissions reductions.    in addition to emissions reductions from our decarbonization efforts, external factors also influence the   calculated emissions total, including data improvements (e.g., improved data quality, updated emissions  factors)   and changes in core business activities from year to year (e.g., number of self-managed vs. partner-managed   productions which can shift the emissions representation between scopes). sustainability strategy sustainability in our operations and value chain netting remaining emissions to zero sustainability in storytelling   climate risk environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report      scope   and   emissions reductions table          ,    ,    ,                      ,          ,    ,    ,      ,                  ,  sub-lever  equipment & controls improvements  right-sizing diesel generators  utility-supplied renewable energy  landlord-supplied renewable energy  streaming partners renewable energy  sustainable aviation fuel  renewable diesel  electric vehicles  plug-in hybrid  hybrid vehicles  hybrid systems  grid tie-in  batteries  hydrogen systems  total action  energy efficiency  renewable energy  (electricity and fuel)  electric (and other  low-carbon) vehicles  clean mobile power    there is no reporting guidance from the sbti on tracking progress towards science-based targets on an annual basis, so we use standard greenhouse gas  accounting methodologies per the corporate accounting and reporting standard by the greenhouse gas protocol. our internal audit team validates our greenhouse  gas accounting methodologies and we engage ey to perform limited assurance over our greenhouse gas emissions. sustainability strategy sustainability in our operations and value chain netting remaining emissions to zero sustainability in storytelling  emission reduction levers emissions reduced and avoided (mt c e)  climate risk environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    reducing emissions in the workplace  in  , we completed energy efficiency audits at our major  facilities across north america. except for albuquerque studios in  new mexico and the egyptian theater in los angeles, netflix does  not own the facilities in which we operate. this makes the  immediate implementation of the audit recommendations more  challenging. so we engaged with our landlords in the us and have  begun to implement projects within our control at several of our  offices and studios including: window replacements, temperature  setbacks, lighting improvements and controls, heat pump installs,  plug load controls, daylight sensor installs and equipment  upgrades. we will replicate this approach across priority facilities  in emea in  . energy efficiency  in  , as in previous years, we have matched our global  operations with  % renewable electricity , covering all electricity  consumption in our offices and for productions we directly manage.  this was achieved through a range of approaches that include  utility-supplied clean electricity, landlord-supplied clean electricity,  and renewable energy certificates (recs). renewable energy (electricity and fuels)   electricity consumption summary table  metric  electricity  consumed (mwh)  percentage grid  electricity  percentage  renewable  electricity  consumed (mwh)  percentage grid  electricity  percentage  renewable  total electricity  consumed (mwh)      ,    %   %   ,    %   %   ,       ,    %   %   ,    %   %   ,       ,    %   %   ,    %   %   ,   scope  hardware  infrastructure  electricity  remaining  electricity  total electricity  we recognize that not all renewable energy supply is the same in  terms of its positive impact. so we’re working to increase the  proportion of onsite generation, utility and landlord-supplied clean  electricity and direct sourcing from offsite projects. sustainability strategy sustainability in our operations and value chain netting remaining emissions to zero sustainability in storytelling   climate risk environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    this year we partnered with powertrust to bring  high-impact distributed renewable energy  projects to rural areas of india for the first time.  this work is funded through distributed renewable  energy certificates (d-recs), a market instrument  aligned to the international rec (i-rec) standard.  these investments bring renewable energy to  regions where it is needed most, thereby  delivering maximal social and environmental  benefits. many of the projects we have invested in  are bringing electricity to communities, and  enabling others to rely less on small-scale fossil  fuel generators. powertrust partnership mon, nagaland : this project has connected three villages in the state of  nagaland to solar mini-grids. these villages are the first demonstration  sites of a larger plan to connect   villages across the province over the  next three years.  dr. shroff’s charity eye hospital, uttar pradesh : this organization operates  multiple centers for high-quality, low-cost eye care serving the rural poor and  low-income communities across india. the combined network sees more  than  ,  patients and performs nearly  ,  surgeries every year. this  branch in uttar pradesh experienced daily power cuts lasting multiple hours,  and relied on diesel generators to provide backup power. now, a photovoltaic  system reduces diesel consumption by up to  %.  vellore institute of technology, andhra pradesh: the institute is a higher  educational facility in andhra pradesh. a  kwp rooftop system now  spreads across several buildings on the institute’s campus, including several  student accommodation and service buildings.  solar irrigation pumps, uttar pradesh:  “irrigation-as-a-service” enables  farmers to transition from diesel-based pumping to solar irrigation. the  tariffs are set to be  - % cheaper than the running cost of diesel  groundwater pumping (including fuel, maintenance, and rental), and users  only pay for the volume of water consumed for irrigation.  sustainability strategy sustainability in our operations and value chain netting remaining emissions to zero sustainability in storytelling  below are some of the highlights of our partnership with powertrust in  : climate risk environment governance social introduction appendix  netflix esg report    renewable fuels  we strive to implement zero-emissions solutions where we can.  but we can also achieve meaningful reductions in the near-term  through the adoption of renewable fuels that have significantly reducing emissions in  the workplace (continued)  production-related emissions account for  % of our overall footprint,  so we are focusing our efforts on: ( ) using clean mobile power  equipment versus diesel generators; and ( ) using evs and other low  emissions vehicles. over the course of   we implemented these  clean technologies on over  % of the productions netflix manages.  we employ sustainability experts who regularly visit production sites to  identify opportunities to reduce emissions and we maintain a  production resources website that contains tools and resources to  introduce our productions to the latest clean technologies. this video  showcases some of these technologies operating on multiple netflix  sets and partner locations, together with testimonials from crew and  producers about their experience:  reducing emissions in productions  sustainability strategy sustainability in our operations and value chain netting remaining emissions to zero sustainability in storytelling    lower emissions than conventional fuels such as diesel and jet-a.  in select markets, we fueled both production vehicles and mobile  generators with over  ,  gallons of renewable diesel , an  important bridge fuel as we work towards longer-term  decarbonization of these activities. similarly, we have secured over   ,  gallons of sustainable aviation fuel  (a jet-a fuel  replacement blended fuel with lower emissions) to help fuel  netflix aircraft. climate risk environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    using diesel generators has been an entertainment  industry standard for a long time and effective  cleaner alternatives have not been available at  scale. cleantech solutions are starting to emerge  and they can replace some generators, or at least  reduce the number of hours they need to run each  day — saving fuel and reducing air and noise  pollution on set.  in the past year, over  % of the productions  netflix manages incorporated clean mobile power  solutions  including grid tie-ins, mobile batteries,  battery-hybrid generators, and hydrogen power  units, resulting in fuel reductions that lowered  emissions by  ,  mtco e . this included the  deployment of over   pieces of clean mobile  power equipment and battery-hybrid generators  deployed for the first time. netflix also expanded  the geographic reach of these solutions, deploying  solutions in and around atlanta, austin, dublin,  lisbon, london, los angeles, new york, paris,  toronto and vancouver. here are a few examples of  clean mobile power in our   productions. clean mobile power  batteries: virgin river season   built on their experience from season   to  expand their use of batteries to power set and ancillary power needs,  reducing the season’s diesel generator fuel use by  %. the union , filmed  around london, leveraged batteries to power the set and lighting, resulting  in generators only being needed for  % of filming hours, saving over  ,   gallons of fuel.  hydrogen power units (hpus): hydrogen power units using green hydrogen  were deployed on uk productions that required supplemental power at studios  or long term locations. for the filming of damsel , two large hydrogen power  units were used to provide supplemental power at a studio, replacing diesel  generators, saving over  ,  gallons of fuel and reducing emissions by    mtco e. the diplomat  season   employed equipment to bring clean power to  a rural location in the english countryside. we partnered with a local production  equipment supplier to conduct the first mobile hydrogen pilot in france on  lupin part  ,  while filming on location outside of paris.  hybrid generators : bodkin season   was the first ever production in  ireland to use a hybrid generator and to use renewable diesel . we also  piloted hybrid generators for the production of the films irish wish ,  unfrosted  and rebel moon, the latter using a hybrid generator plus  solar technology to provide remote power to construction crews and  wardrobe trailers.  sustainability strategy sustainability in our operations and value chain netting remaining emissions to zero sustainability in storytelling  clean mobile power spotlights: climate risk environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    film and series productions take thousands of vehicles that until  recently have been universally fossil-fuel powered. in the past  year, over  % of the productions netflix manages incorporated  electric, plug-in hybrid, and hybrid vehicles , totaling more than    vehicles piloted in   (a  x increase in vehicles from  ),  resulting in fuel reductions that lowered emissions by    mtco e (a  x increase in reductions from  ). these vehicles  were deployed on productions in los angeles, london, new york,  toronto and vancouver.  from our pilots, we have learned that ev passenger vehicles can  save productions money and fuel when provided to crew that have  high daily mileage, and that plug-in hybrids and regular hybrids are  good transition vehicles that reduce emissions without range  anxiety. as we prepare to pilot larger vehicles, including electric  trucks, we know that charging infrastructure, including mobile  charging, is key to the successful integration of evs into  production operations. therefore we have begun to build out  charging infrastructure at studios where we frequently produce  series and films. we are installing faster level   stations  (dispensing  -  kw vs the standard  -  kw) and have  purchased dc fast chargers that will be installed in los angeles  and at our owned studio in albuquerque in  . vehicle electrification sustainability strategy sustainability in our operations and value chain netting remaining emissions to zero sustainability in storytelling   climate risk environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    the film and television industry is over a century old and has  been traditionally powered by fossil fuels. while we have set  netflix-specific climate targets, we can’t transition  entertainment to a cleaner, low carbon industry alone. this is  why we partner with other studios to ensure progress made  by one benefits everyone — and because we believe  collective actions will yield positive outcomes, faster.  we do this through:  industry collaboration sustainable production industry groups :  netflix is a member of several industry groups globally (e.g., sustainable   production alliance  (global), bafta’s albert  (uk and global), reel  green/on tourne vert/ontario green screen (canada), green motion  (germany), sustainable screens australia, etc.) to help bring  transparency (e.g., close up: carbon emissions of film & television   production ) and public advocacy for sector transformation (e.g.,  hydrogen hub ).  clean mobile power initiative :  by co-founding the clean mobile power initiative (cmpi)  with support from  non-profit rocky mountain institute and its climate accelerator, we aim to  identify and deliver cost-competitive zero emissions mobile power at scale  for the entertainment industry. the long term goal is to eliminate diesel  generators in top production markets.  sustainable aviation buyers alliance :  making a film or series requires air travel. to accelerate progress towards  lowering the greenhouse gas emissions associated with burning jet fuel,  netflix co-founded the sustainable aviation buyers alliance (saba) .  saba sends market signals to producers of sustainable aviation fuel  (saf) to grow supply, facilitates coordinated procurement activity, and  ensures the environmental integrity of their claims. we also actively partner with other key business and non  profit consortia to: ( ) further our understanding of climate  representation on screen, including through bafta’s   albert , spa  and the climate entertainment stakeholders  roll call, a group organized by the television academy ,  academy of motion picture arts & sciences  , creative   artists agency , and pga  to connect the companies and  organizations working in climate entertainment; and ( )  advocate for more sustainable policy solutions, including  ceres , c es , the business roundtable  and motion   picture association .   sustainability strategy sustainability in our operations and value chain netting remaining emissions to zero sustainability in storytelling   climate risk environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    sustainability across the value chain  purchased goods & services  (pg&s) emissions, i.e., goods and  services we buy from others, made up the majority of our    scope   footprint, primarily related to film and series production.  the next biggest scope   category in   was business travel  emissions , which includes air travel, hotel stays and  travel-related transportation, and accounts for < % of our total  scope   emissions. compared to last year, our overall scope    emissions decreased by about  % . these emissions reductions  can be attributed in part to a smaller volume of productions in    compared to  , which experienced a jump as covid  shutdowns eased. the reductions were also driven by significant  renewable energy consumption and procurement by aws (refer to  data centers and content distribution network ), and (to some  degree) by epa emissions factor changes . since a big part of these emissions are driven by the productions  that other studios make on our behalf, as noted above, we partner  closely with our peers and industry partners to engage our  suppliers and shift the entertainment industry towards a more  sustainable filmmaking approach. as we begin to track against our  new scope   targets, we will share our progress along the way. scope   emissions this is what industry leadership looks like. netflix is raising the bar   by aligning operations with science, pioneering approaches to   protect nature, and sending new demand signals to suppliers that   sustainability is a measurable priority. not only do we see progress   against ambitious near-term goals, netflix is also leveraging their   platform for positive change. it’s clear that netflix is taking climate   action seriously.  elizabeth sturcken,  managing director, environmental defense fund    scope   category  , per the greenhouse gas protocol    scope   category  , per the greenhouse gas protocol    dataset and description of changes . updates to these scope   emissions factors reflect ongoing  improvements by the epa, to use updated methodologies and data where possible. netflix tracks  materiality of any methodological updates to the footprint, and follows established guidelines for re-baselining  as needed. sustainability strategy sustainability in our operations and value chain netting remaining emissions to zero sustainability in storytelling   climate risk environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    carbon trust’s white paper  on the  carbon impacts of video  streaming determined that the use-phase emissions associated  with data center and cdn operations are small (< %) compared to  the rest of the video streaming value chain.  netflix partners with amazon web services (aws) for our data  storage and cloud computation needs. aws has a goal of using   % renewable energy by  . in  , aws reported via their  customer carbon footprint tool  that our carbon footprint was  reduced by approximately  %  compared to last year. this is due  to aws’s renewable energy usage and purchasing, and energy  efficiency initiatives.  this trend is consistent with research findings, which show that the  energy intensity of global data centers has decreased by  %  annually since  . this is a notable improvement compared with  recent annual efficiency gains in other major demand sectors (e.g.,  aviation and industry), which are an order of magnitude lower . data centers and content distribution network (cdn)  when it comes to distributing our content to our members, netflix  invests heavily in making this process as efficient as possible with  our open connect  program. we make  ,  servers available for  free to internet service providers who operate them in their data    centers across  ,  locations in over   countries . so when  our members press play, instead of the film or series being  streamed from halfway around the world, it’s streamed from  around the corner — increasing efficiency for operators while also  ensuring a high-quality, no-lag experience for consumers. on top  of that, we’ve developed encoding technology to reduce file sizes  and optimize bandwidth use while maintaining high video quality  for consumers. over the past five years, we have been able to cut  our bit rates by roughly  % . this is in addition to the significant  efficiency gains the telecom industry has achieved within their  own networks . we are encouraged by the strong energy efficiency and  renewable energy usage trends of both aws and our own open  connect program, and are committed to continually decarbonizing  these processes over time. refer to our recent blog post energy   efficiency in streaming: innovation reaping rewards  to  learn more.    e. masanet, a. shehabi, n. lei, s. smith, j. koomey, “ recalibrating global data center energy-use estimates ,” science magazine,      co-ceo greg peters' keynote address to the   mobile world congress  sustainability strategy sustainability in our operations and value chain netting remaining emissions to zero sustainability in storytelling   climate risk environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    because internet infrastructure (including data centers) are so  widely shared by so many consumers across so many services, the  energy consumption of this infrastructure for individual video  streams is relatively efficient (i.e., ~ % of total use-phase  streaming emissions). by contrast, the physical devices used by  our members (wifi routers, streaming sticks, set top boxes, and  displays) drive the most energy consumption and emissions  (~ % ). even so, the total carbon footprint of streaming one hour  of video is approximately   gco e  (grams of carbon dioxide  equivalents). this equates roughly  to the emissions associated  with microwaving four bags of popcorn, or three boils in an  electric kettle . internet transmission and user device energy use  based on globally accepted greenhouse gas accounting  standards , internet- and device-related emissions fall outside  of the formal carbon footprint boundary for netflix. even so, we still  think it is important for us to contribute to industry-wide  decarbonization efforts.  through our participation in dimpact , we collaborate with internet  service providers (isps), device manufacturers, and academic and  industry experts to stay up-to-date on the latest research  about  digital service emissions and contribute to cross-sector policy  suggestions that will help decarbonize video streaming globally.  we’ve summarized the main takeaways here . additionally, we are part of the dimpact device manufacturers  working group, where we support research related to device energy  efficiency. we are also encouraged by work with the carbon trust , in  collaboration with companies like amazon, meta, microsoft,  samsung and sky, to tackle the emissions of connected devices.    based on uk emissions factors, because these comparisons vary by country depending on the carbon  intensity of the user's national grid.    the true climate impact of streaming     per the greenhouse gas protocol  and also validated by our auditors, indirect use-phase emissions are  optional to include. the science based target initiative (sbti) also specifies that internet- and device-related  emissions are indirect use phase emissions for software and telecommunication services, therefore optional to  include in our footprint and target ( target validation protocol for near-term targets, version  . , pg.   ).data center operators   %internet service providers   % device manufacturers   %  electric utilities   % of this value chain relies on electricity sustainability strategy sustainability in our operations and value chain netting remaining emissions to zero sustainability in storytelling   climate risk environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    netting remaining  emissions to zero  to supplement our decarbonization work, we delivered on our  promise to net all remaining emissions to zero , across all three  scopes, in  . we did this by investing in nature to retain and  remove carbon (nature-based carbon credits) and match  remaining electricity use to like-for-like renewable energy credits.  we align with the  latest guidance  from nine research, ngo and  multilateral government institutions who conclude that, “in  addition to cutting greenhouse gas emissions in company  operations and across value chains, to help get the world on track  for halving global emissions by  , all companies need to invest  in protecting, managing and restoring nature, for example by  buying high-quality nature-based carbon credits.” relative to our  work to decarbonize, purchasing carbon credits comes only after  we have made efforts to reduce emissions at the speed prescribed nature-based carbon credits by climate science. but per the science ( intergovernmental panel   on climate change , nature ), this needs to be done in parallel and  cannot come later . our   carbon credit portfolio spans four continents, six  countries, and  + on-the-ground partners , with  % third-party  certification for carbon measurement. netflix does extensive due  diligence before including a project in our portfolio, using a rigorous  five step evaluation process  to select the highest quality credits, all  of which need to demonstrate their value beyond the carbon,  including social impact, community and biodiversity benefits. we  review transparency and integrity work from groups like vcmi and  icv-cm, and stay abreast of methodologies from third party credit  standards bodies to continually refine our vetting process.  nature-based projects make up  % of our portfolio  because of  their ecosystem benefits and potential to bring economic value to  the region, including indigenous people or those disproportionately  affected by climate change.  short film by the makers of our  great national parks  on how carbon  credits work, illustrated using  netflix’s contribution to a kenyan  forest conservation project next to  tsavo national park (episode  )    all scenarios developed by the ipcc that limit climate change to  . °c rely on increasing the ghg sequestration potential of nature coupled with the avoidance of further  damage to soils, forests, peatlands, wetlands, oceans and other critical biodiverse sinks - ipcc ( ) climate change  : mitigation of climate change .  a we mean business  coalition study showed that if the world’s  ,  biggest emitters compensated each year for just  % of the emissions they have not yet cut, through  investments in nature, it would mitigate nearly   gigatons of emissions and mobilize up to $  trillion in climate finance by  . sustainability strategy sustainability in our operations and value chain netting remaining emissions to zero sustainability in storytelling   climate risk environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report      carbon portfolio  project name  mycorrhizal inoculation  accelerated reforestation  carbon removal  chyulu hills  redd+ project  salvador da bahia  landfill gas project  bangladesh gas  leak reduction  scott river improved  forest management country  chile  kenya  brazil  bangladesh  usa project type  removal:  reforestation  retention:  redd+  methane  mitigation  methane  mitigation  removal:  ifm project benefits  advances biotechnology,  biodiversity, local skilled jobs,  soil rehabilitation  biodiversity, drought  prevention, education  resources, local jobs and  alternative livelihoods, strong  local community governance  reduced pollution,  local skilled jobs  reduced pollution,  local skilled jobs  fire prevention,  biochar production,  watershed restoration vendor  mikro-tek &  climate impact  partners  conservation  international  climate  partners  climate impact  partners  ecotrust forest  management tonnes   ,    ,    ,    ,    ,   mycorrhizal inoculation accelerated  reforestation carbon removal  scott river improved forest management  sustainability strategy sustainability in our operations and value chain netting remaining emissions to zero sustainability in storytelling   climate risk environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report      carbon portfolio (continued)  country  brazil  mexico  mexico  usa  project type  methane  mitigation  removal:  ifm  removal:  ifm  removal:  soil carbon project benefits  reduced pollution,  local skilled jobs  biodiversity,  local skilled jobs  biodiversity, local skilled jobs,  fire prevention and other  forest health benefits  biodiversity, local skilled jobs,  soil health, fire prevention and  other forest health benefits vendor  climate impact  partners  cool effect  cool effect  indigo ag /  cool effect  total tonnes   ,    ,    ,    ,    , ,   icoco community based reforestation  project name  central de resíduos do  recreio landfill gas  project (crrlgp)  los bancos community  based improved  forest management  icico community  based reforestation  indigo ag soil  carbon project chyulu hills redd+ project  for any electricity we weren’t able to decarbonize in  , we used like-for-like credits by retiring energy  attribute certificates (e.g., renewable energy certificates (recs) in the us, guarantees of origin (gos) in  europe) to cover all non-renewable electricity use in over   countries. renewable electricity credits  sustainability strategy sustainability in our operations and value chain netting remaining emissions to zero sustainability in storytelling   climate risk environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    sustainability in  storytelling  in  ,   million, or more than  % of our members , chose to  watch at least one story on netflix that highlighted sustainability.  we’ve curated over   of these series, films and specials into a  netflix collection: sustainability stories . the collection includes  comedies like don’t look up , documentaries like the academy  award® winning the elephant whisperers  and our great national  parks , to the mystery film glass onion: a knives out mystery ,  fantasy sci-fi sweet tooth  and political drama borgen - power and  glory,  inspiring solutions in down to earth with zac efron,  and  family fare like the sea beast  and spirit rangers . visit the netflix  sustainability webpage  for more.  the sea beast our great national parks  down to earth with zac efron spirit rangers  don’t look up sustainability strategy sustainability in our operations and value chain netting remaining emissions to zero sustainability in storytelling   climate risk environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    netflix has committed to expanding the use of evs in shows and  films we produce ourselves — and announced this in a   super  bowl ad with gm starring will ferrell.  these titles will start to hit  the service in  , including murder mystery   , virgin river  season   and more that will prominently feature evs. evs on screen  young people like myself view netflix as a cherished form of   entertainment but also as a source of education and   inspiration. as more and more of our generation recognizes   the implications of the climate crisis on our daily lives we feel   hopeful when shows like the crown tackle coal pollution, or   when zac efron’s down to earth highlights new green   technologies. i’m proud of netflix for being serious about   tackling the climate crisis both in-house and on-screen.  xiye bastida,  indigenous youth climate activist and winner of  the spirit of the un award  sustainability strategy sustainability in our operations and value chain netting remaining emissions to zero sustainability in storytelling   climate risk environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    refer also to the tcfd index  in the appendix to this report  board: the netflix board oversees the company’s  esg efforts, which includes sustainability, with the  assistance of the nominating and governance  committee. they regularly receive updates on  sustainability and enterprise risk management at  board meetings.  management: our chief financial officer (cfo)  oversees management decisions related to our  sustainability programs, which are led by our netflix  sustainability officer. our internal audit team performs  an annual company-wide enterprise risk assessment, in  which climate risks are considered, and the findings of  this assessment are shared with the board annually. governance climate risk  we conducted an initial climate risk assessment at the end of  .  this evaluation looked at a range of climate risks as defined by the  task force on climate-related disclosures , including physical,  regulatory, reputational, market, legal, and transitional risks. we also  referenced the esg-specific committee of sponsoring   organizations’ (coso) framework  and intergovernmental panel on  climate change (ipcc) research to build a climate risk framework to  assess netflix risk. strategy and risk management  sustainability strategy sustainability in our operations and value chain netting remaining emissions to zero sustainability in storytelling   climate risk environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    risks  description  acute physical risks caused by disruption from  wildfires, flooding and sea level rise could pose a  threat to business continuity and an impact to  productions in areas impacted by natural disasters.  regulatory impacts could impose additional costs  and limitations on how we produce content and  operate our service.  regulatory impacts on traditional energy sources  could pose a risk on our license to operate and  produce content (e.g., bans on diesel generators in  desirable shooting locations) if new comparable  technologies aren’t introduced in sufficient supply  in time.  time horizon  short term  medium term  mitigation strategy  we produce content all around the world and can be somewhat resilient  to issues related to a particular studio or filming location. as part of our  planning for productions, we conduct risk assessments and develop  detailed emergency response plans for each different potential scenario.  during production, we regularly track adverse weather events and other  situations that may impact the continuity of our productions and  implement plans as needed (e.g., halting production, moving locations,  etc.). we will also continue to monitor global physical risks as a part of our  enterprise wide risk management and business continuity programs,  which will inform additional mitigation strategies.  we partner closely with players across the industry to evaluate, develop  and deploy new sustainable technologies as well as seek to operate as  efficiently as possible with traditional energy sources.  along with other companies, we have partnered with dimpact to  help better understand and assess the impact of emerging trends in  our industry.  read more about these efforts in the sustainability in our operations   and value chain  section risk type  acute  physical  emerging  regulation  we identified the following risks and opportunities, and  mapped them against current strategies: sustainability strategy sustainability in our operations and value chain netting remaining emissions to zero sustainability in storytelling   climate risk environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    opportunities  description  energy efficiency in our operations.   optimization and electrification of our vehicle  fleet across our operations, productions and in  our supply chain.  supporting entertaining and  scientifically-informed content that raises  environmental awareness.  time horizon  short term  short term  medium term  business strategy  netflix conducts energy efficiency audits across our operations  and long term lease facilities in order to reduce energy costs and  emissions from inefficiencies in our built environment. learn more  in our sustainability in our operations and value chain  section.  netflix is exploring various ways to optimize fleet use with our  suppliers and switching from fossil fueled transportation to evs.  evs are more efficient and many models have lower total cost of  ownership versus gas-powered vehicles. we anticipate that this  integration of these practices and technologies will result in net  cost and operational savings over the next decade. learn more in  our sustainability in our operations and value chain  section.  learn more in our sustainability in storytelling  section. opportunity type  resource  efficiency  energy  source  products and  services  while the assessment was a useful exercise, the climate risks we  identified were all mapped to risk mitigation strategies already in place  or underway. the output of this climate risk assessment was also used  as an input into our enterprise risk management (erm) assessment.  when evaluated using our erm methodology, no standalone  climate-related risks were identified as significant for the company. refer to our public climate targets  and scope  ,   and     greenhouse gas emissions data  above. measuring our performance  against these targets over time helps to inform our climate risk  assessment process, in particular our transition risks. metrics and targets sustainability strategy sustainability in our operations and value chain netting remaining emissions to zero sustainability in storytelling   climate risk environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report   social  we are focused on a number of areas, including  diversity and inclusion within netflix,  representation both behind and in front of the  camera and the accessibility of our service.  environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    inclusion & diversity  if we are to serve audiences globally, we want an  employee base that reflects our membership and a  culture that enables those employees to do the best  work of their lives. our first inclusion report , published  in  , looked at “representation within the company,  how we plan to increase it and how we cultivate a  community of belonging and allyship” — and we’ve  been working to build on that over the last two years.  inclusion and diversity responsible products  environment governance social introduction appendix   . %   . %  . %    netflix esg report    gender (global)  across gender identities, women make up   . %  of our workforce and have the highest  representation at netflix, compared to  . % in   . women leadership (directors and above)  remained steady at  . %  (vs.  . % in  ).  men and additional gender identities  remained  flat at  % and  . % respectively, compared  to  . representation today   %   %   %   %   %   % women men additional  gender  identities  . %   . %   . %   . %  %   %   %   %   %   % women men additional  gender  identities  . %  . %   . %   . % global gender identity  all job levels director+         this data is based on a subset of our streaming employee population, representing approximately  ,  streaming  employees. due to regional laws, we are not able to collect gender data in every region.  % of the  ,  employees  represented in the data collection process chose not to disclose a gender identity.    netflix acknowledges and honors that gender is non-binary, so employees can self-identify from categories outside of  man or woman.  senior leadership  of the   leaders in our senior leadership team   in  ,  . %  ( ) are women. inclusion and diversity responsible products environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    race/ethnicity (us)  over half of our us workforce (  . % ) is made up of people  from one or more historically excluded ethnic and/or racial  backgrounds, including asian, black, hispanic or latino/a/x,  middle eastern or north african, native american, and  pacific islander . representation today    in the us — where we collect and report race and ethnicity data — we had approximately  ,  employees.  previously published results will differ due to changes in data collection methods that allow employees to share  multiple self-identities (e.g., black and asian compared to only “multi-race”); with this change, percentages can  add up to more than  %.    the race & ethnicity self-identification categories that netflix uses are largely informed by us federal  reporting requirements. the number of us employees who identify as asian  accounts for  %  of our workforce, an increase from   . % in  — and  . % of our leadership (directors  and above), compared to  . % in  .  the number of us black employees accounts for  . %   of our workforce, a decrease from  . % in   — and   . % of our leadership (directors and above), a  decrease from  . % in  .  the number of us hispanic or latino/a/x employees  accounts for  . %  of our workforce, relatively flat from  last year ( . %) — and  . % of our leadership  (directors and above), an increase from  . % in  . senior leadership  of the   leaders in our senior leadership team  in  ,  . %  ( )  self-identify as belonging to one or more historically excluded  ethnic and/or racial backgrounds.  inclusion and diversity responsible products environment governance social introduction appendix  native  american/ alaskan  native asian black hispanic/ latino/a/x middle  eastern/  north  african native  hawaiian/ other  pacific  islander white  . %  . %   . %  . %   . %   . %   . %  . %   . %  . %   . %  . %  . %   . %   . %  . %  . %  . %   . %  . %  middle  eastern/  north  african  . %    netflix esg report     %   %   %   %   %   % native  american/ alaskan  native  . % us race/ethnicity  all job levels      asian black hispanic/ latino/a/x native  hawaiian/ other  pacific  islander white  . %   . %   . %  . %  . %   . %  %   %   %   %   %   %us race/ethnicity  director+       refer also to our eeo-  reports from  -  here . inclusion and diversity responsible products environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    increased representation is only part of the journey. people need  to feel included and valued within an organization if they are to  stay long term — and while we’ve made steady progress, we have  much more to do. key is building an inclusion lens so that  employees at every level can move from awareness about  diversity, equity and inclusion to action and impact more quickly.  in  the last year, over   of our leaders  globally have participated in  small group workshops on leading inclusively. we also have  groups of inclusion advisors in all regions and functions helping to  develop best practices in hiring, compensation, onboarding,  feedback, growth and development.  we conduct pay equity analyses at least annually. these are  designed to help ensure that employees from historically  underrepresented groups are not being underpaid based on  gender (globally) and race (us) relative to others doing the same or  similar work under comparable circumstances. we aim to rectify  pay gaps that we find. in addition, we will increase transparency  around employee retention and pay equity in our inclusion updates  and esg reporting starting in  . deepening our culture of  inclusion and belonging  on recruiting and development, we have expanded the number of  hispanic serving institutions (hsi), historically black colleges and  universities (hbcu), and minority serving institutions (msi)  represented in our pathways bootcamp . this immersive  -week  program provides technical skills development to students from  historically underrepresented groups. since the program's inception  in  ,   students have participated in the pathways bootcamp.  on building a more inclusive working environment, we now have    employee resource groups (ergs) — with over  ,  employees  in   chapters globally. these ergs help to: create a positive and  welcoming environment for employees from historically  underrepresented communities at netflix; raise our collective  consciousness around diversity and inclusion issues; and support  recruitment, retention and employee engagement.   +  erg chapters  across the globe students have participated in  pathways bootcamp  inclusion and diversity responsible products environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    at netflix, we seek excellence in everything we do — our product,  our entertainment and our culture. to help us succeed, we’ve  created an employee culture that’s focused on continuous  improvement so we can better serve our members and build our  business. our publicly available culture memo  outlines our  approach, which we update as needed to ensure we remain flexible  in our approach. and we focus on employee engagement and  feedback, including through regular town halls, business reviews  and memos (which we often share broadly, including comments). culture and engagement  we offer benefits through four pillars: physical health, mental  health, family and financial. on the right are a few highlights of  our offerings: benefits and wellbeing physical health: medical benefits  work differently by country. no  matter what the case is in each location, we make sure our  employees and their families are covered. additionally, we focus on  accommodations and workplace adjustments to enable employees  with one or more disabilities to be productive and successful.  mental health:  mental health is important to overall health so we  offer various programs to support employees and their dependents.  globally, we provide access to mindfulness resources, as well as free  therapy and coaching sessions. in  , we introduced a formal  wellbeing + resilience strategy to manage issues related to anxiety  and workplace stress. our primary goal is to enhance productivity by  focusing on integrating wellbeing into our operations.  family benefits:  netflix offers a global family forming and fertility  health benefit to support employees during their fertility health,  surrogacy, adoption and family forming journey. this benefit is  available to employees and their spouse/domestic partner,  regardless of marital status, gender identity or sexual orientation. we  also recognize that one of the most important events in many of our  employees’ lives is the birth or adoption of a child, and our parental  leave policy is “take care of your baby and yourself.”  financial benefits:  we provide employees the opportunity to  prepare for their futures through our retirement-savings benefits,  which vary by country.  inclusion and diversity responsible products  benefits highlights: environment governance social introduction appendix  netflix esg report    employee giving program  philanthropy at netflix is driven by employees through our  employee giving program. consistent with our culture of freedom  and responsibility, we enable employees to donate to causes that  are meaningful to them through a  :  employee match . when an  employee donates to a charitable organization (from over   million  eligible charitable organizations in   countries), netflix matches  that with  x the donation amount, with an upper limit of $ ,   per employee per year  for all donations and matches. this  democratizes giving decisions, and incentivizes employees to  support causes they’re passionate about.  in  , we expanded our giving options and ways to get  involved. we added a new volunteer match program in which  netflix employees can donate time by volunteering. for every  hour an employee volunteers with an eligible cause, netflix  donates $  to the same cause as part of each employee’s annual  match maximum.  total giving as part of the netflix employee giving program in    was approximately $  million  supporting over  ,   charities worldwide. nearly  % of our employees participated in  the employee giving program in  .    inclusion and diversity responsible products environment governance social introduction appendix   % netflix esg report    better representation on-screen starts with representation behind  the camera and in the office. but we know that driving real change  in film and tv, not only at netflix but industry-wide, means  continuing to think about whose voices are still missing and  discovering the next generation of storytellers. progress in film/series and productions  usc annenberg inclusion report  we partner with dr. stacy l. smith and the usc annenberg  inclusion initiative to examine several inclusion metrics (e.g.,  gender, race/ethnicity, lgbtq+, disability) in our  us-commissioned films and series. in  , we released our  first-ever study and committed to publicly releasing our progress  every two years through   to help keep us accountable and  effect lasting change in our industry.  this april we shared  the latest round of research looking at netflix  us films and series from   to  . the new findings showed  notable gains year-over-year for women and people from  underrepresented racial/ethnic groups. more than half of all netflix films or  series from  -  featured a  girl or woman as the lead or co-lead. gender equality in  leading roles   % in   to  , nearly half of netflix  films and series featured a lead or  co-lead from an underrepresented  racial/ethnic group.  more people of color  in leading roles  in  ,  . % of directors on netflix  films were women, compared to  . %  across top-grossing films across the  industry that same year. and  % of  show creators in   were women,  substantially higher than  . % in  . more women behind  the camera   . % women of color increased significantly as  series directors from  . % in   to  . %  in  , with similar growth for writer and  creator roles. nearly a third of films ( . %)  and more than half of series ( . %) in    had women of color as leads/co-leads. women of color behind and  in front of the camera   . % however, the results also reveal that gaps persist for some specific racial/ethnic  groups, including latinx, middle eastern/north african, indigenous and native  hawaiian/pacific islander communities, as well as characters with disabilities.  read the executive summary here  and the full report here .  inclusion and diversity responsible products   environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    fund for creative equity  from our work with usc, we have learned that more inclusion  behind the camera leads to better representation on screen. so in   , we established the netflix fund for creative equity , a  commitment of $  million over five years  towards building new  opportunities for underrepresented communities within  entertainment. through the fund, netflix supports external  organizations that are committed to creating more equitable  opportunities in the tv and film industries, as well as bespoke   netflix programs  that help us to identify, train and provide job  placement for up-and-coming talent globally.  in just two years, we have committed $  million towards these  initiatives, supporting over  ,  up-and-coming creatives and  partnering with more than   organizations around the world.  we’ve also placed   creatives from our programs on netflix  productions in a variety of roles, ranging from line producers and  associate editors to casting assistants and grips. read the latest  update on the fund for creative equity here . invested more than  $  million  in  programs over the past   years partnered with over    organizations  across the globe established more than    programs in over   countries   from the united kingdom to  brazil and spain to india supported more than  ,   creatives  including directors,  producers, writers, visual effects  artists and more  inclusion and diversity responsible products environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    program and creator spotlights  paula garcas  graduate from the netflix series directors  development program in the us  “the netflix series directors development program  helped me  pivot my career - the team looked beyond my career as an actor,  and saw the potential in me to grow as an artist. the program  gave us access to major talent and a front row seat to the inner  workings of directing. thanks to lauren iungerich, i directed an  episode on two netflix shows  as part of this. training with lauren  has been invaluable to my career. she gave me all the time, tools  and encouragement to truly succeed, while testing me and  challenging me to grow along the way. because of her, i’m  prepared to tackle any opportunity that comes my way.”  mirwais sarwary  participant in the new producers academy  fellowship in the netherlands  "through the npa masterclasses and networking events,   i’ve had the opportunity to meet and discuss ideas with key  players in the film industry. above all, i have had the time,  space, and tools to develop my vision as a producer. in a short  period of only six months, the new producers academy has  allowed me to position myself in the dutch film industry on my  terms. what has been most rewarding is to be in a position  where i can work together with emerging creators that find my  fresh approach as a producer valuable and essential." korede azeez  winner of the african folktales, reimagined  short film competition, nigeria  “i learned so much from day one.  it was the most tasking project  i have ever worked on, but it was also the most rewarding. i got to  work with some of the best talent in my country, which was an  amazing experience. they treated me with so much respect and i  am grateful for the immense support i got from netflix and my  mentor. i also learned a lot about how a world class production is  managed, and this is definitely something i’ll be taking into future  work. i have grown tremendously as a filmmaker and i feel more  ready to take on the world.”  here are a few highlights of programs and creators we supported in  .  aditi sharma  graduate of the netflix x film companion  take ten initiative, india  “through the take ten program,  i got to learn about writing a  screenplay, creating characters, directing actors, along with many  other filmmaking lessons. we had the opportunity to do this  under the guidance of film companion, and being mentored by  professionals who are not only good at what they do, but also  truly invested in the process of teaching, was extremely helpful.  there aren’t any grant opportunities in india to speak of, and to  have a platform like netflix to showcase your film was a huge deal  for a first time filmmaker like me. for the first time, me and my  team believed that we had a real shot at this.”  inclusion and diversity responsible products environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    supporting black banks and financial institutions  in   , we announced that we would plan to allocate  % of our  cash holdings — initially up to $  million — into black banks and  similar financial institutions to help create economic opportunities  for black communities in the us. in  , we fulfilled our initial  pledge and in  , we continued to expand that investment to   % of our cash and short-term investment holdings ( $  million   has been committed as of december  ,  ). progress in partnerships  supplier diversity  we’re working to ensure that our suppliers and vendors come from  a diversity of backgrounds. this helps create jobs and  opportunities in communities where we do business for people  who’ve often been marginalized historically. in  , we spent  ~$  million  with underrepresented suppliers, a  %  year-over-year increase.  inclusion and diversity responsible products  environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    with a catalytic seed investment of $  million , netflix collaborated with lisc  fund management (lfm) to create the  black economic development fund   (bedf). the fund launched in   to address economic challenges in the  black community and to help close the racial wealth gap. since then, bedf has  grown into a $  million mission-driven fund  investing in black-led  developers, financial institutions, anchor organizations and businesses, with  the goal of growing these organizations and strengthening their contributions  to the black community. from inception to the end of  , netflix  contributions supported bedf’s investment of $  million in black-led  transactions: $  million in deposits to black-owned banks; $  million to  black-owned businesses; and $  million in black-led real estate developers.  netflix’s anchor investment of $  million has been instrumental  in the creation of the black economic development fund,  enabling us to invest in the black community in a bold way.  without the support of visionary partners like netflix, this  transformative initiative may have never come to fruition.  we are deeply grateful for their partnership and look forward  to continuing to drive positive change together.  michelle spivak, senior director,  lisc fund management  inclusion and diversity responsible products  partner spotlights  hope credit union was one of the first investments in the netflix  commitment to build economic opportunity in black communities.  the investment in hope is supporting the financing of more than   ,  entrepreneurs, homebuyers and consumers of color . to  learn more about these investments and their impact, check out the  youtube web series “banking on us.”  episode   episode   episode   environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    as a women-led b-corp, we’re delighted to collaborate with netflix,  a leader in promoting racial justice, in our shared goal of reimagining  how corporations invest in communities of color. hand in hand,  we’re charting a new course for corporate responsibility.  cash deposits : netflix has committed $  million to cnote impact  cash® funds to be deposited with mission-driven depository  institutions (dis). investments from netflix have supported  collective lending for over $ .  billion in auto loans, over $ .   billion in commercial loans and over $ .  billion in housing loans. catherine berman,  ceo of cnote  inclusion and diversity responsible products  netflix leverages cnote’s technology solution to support cash  management into diversified deposits targeting social impact.  deposits are deployed with a network of impact-driven  depository institutions that support black, indigenous, people  of color (bipoc) and low-to-moderate income communities  and individuals, as well as women entrepreneurs.  racial equity and disability loans : a netflix fixed income  commitment of $  million  focused on racial equity and disability  has supported loans to   community development financial  institutions (cdfis) as of the end of  . these cdfis provide  funds to support individuals with physical disabilities, those  suffering from mental illness, those recently released from  incarceration or recovering from substance abuse issues and  members of bipoc communities that have been denied access to  capital or services. partner spotlights environment governance social introduction appendix  netflix esg report      responsible products  empowering people to easily choose and experience films,  series and games they love is critical to a member’s joy every  time they go to netflix. we design our products to protect the  privacy and security of our members, and to be inclusive and  accessible to everyone. privacy  our service has always been subscription-based, and when   members sign up for any plan, we ask for very little information:   email, name and method of payment. our personal information   handling principles ensure our engineering and business teams   are aligned on our approach to privacy. our privacy statement   provides a detailed explanation of our privacy practices to our   members, including: the information netflix collects or receives   from each member; information from our partners; how we use and   disclose it (including advertising that we conduct off netflix to   promote our service); and the controls each member has in  relation   to this information.   in november of  , netflix introduced an ad-supported plan  which allows members to enjoy our service at a lower price with  limited ads. for those signing up for our ad-supported plan, we   also ask for date of birth and gender. members have the ability to   opt-out of the selection of ads based on third party behavioral   advertising (i.e., ads selected based on use and/or interactions   with unaffiliated third party websites and apps over time). we offer   members the ability to exercise such opt-outs through a simple   in-service control — and we do not share what individual members   watch with advertisers.   inclusion and diversity responsible products  environment governance social introduction appendix  netflix esg report      government requests  related to content  we offer creators the ability to reach audiences all around the  world. however, our catalog varies from country to country,  including for rights reasons (i.e., we don’t have the rights to every  title in every country where we operate). in a few cases, we’ve  had to remove specific titles or episodes of titles in specific  countries to comply with government demands. below are the  titles we removed in   — three  in total. we report these  takedowns annually. information and cybersecurity  we strive to protect sensitive information through various means,  including: technical safeguards; procedural requirements and  policies; a program of monitoring to detect and address  unauthorized modification or misuse; continuous testing of  aspects of our security internally and with outside experts; and a  robust incident response program.  we regularly assess what areas of vulnerability there are, how we  detect issues, how we respond and then how we let people know.  we also have a  responsible vulnerability disclosure  program,  launched in  , that allows security researchers around the  world to find and report security vulnerabilities in netflix products  and systems in exchange for compensation.  the vice president (vp) of security, privacy, assurance and  corporate engineering oversees a team of employees dedicated to  information security. cybersecurity is discussed at every audit  committee meeting and is also a board-level issue. our vp  regularly attends audit committee meetings and provides updates  on cybersecurity matters. ●in august  , we complied with a written demand from the  radio and television supreme council (rtuk) in turkey by  removing one episode - episode   of season   - of the series  jurassic world camp cretaceous  in turkey.  ●in september  , we complied with a written demand  from the singapore infocomm media development authority  (imda) to remove the series how to change your mind   in singapore.  ●in october  , we complied with a written demand from the  ministry of information and communication (mic) in vietnam  and removed the series little women  in vietnam.  inclusion and diversity responsible products environment governance social introduction appendix  netflix esg report      product accessibility  we believe incredible stories and games should be enjoyed by all of  our members, regardless of language, device, connectivity, or  ability and that accessibility is just as important as the aesthetics,  speed and stability of our service.  making our service more accessible  we have designed features  like assistive listening systems,  brightness controls, keyboard shortcuts, screen readers, larger font  size and voice commands into our products. we also conduct  research with current and prospective members aimed at  identifying barriers to perceiving, navigating, and interacting with  netflix, and design solutions to remove those barriers. we take  advantage of device-specific assistive technologies (e.g., native  features on apple ios and android platforms) as much as possible.  we also create our own accessibility options, such as the ability to  change the font, size, shadow, and background color of closed  captions and subtitles on tv, and adjust playback speed on mobile.  our catalog of titles with subtitles for the deaf and hard of hearing  (sdh), and audio descriptions (ad) for our members with vision  needs is continually expanding. all netflix-owned films and series  support sdh for the language in which they were originally  produced. we have also started expanding sdh and ad to nearly    languages , including spanish, portuguese, and french. netflix  members can browse titles with english audio descriptions in the  gallery on our website, and by selecting “audio description” under  the categories menu in our mobile apps. we also introduced new  badge icons for our shows and films that have ad and sdh on  web, tv, ios and android so members can more easily discover  stories suited to their needs, eliminating the inconvenient need to  play a title first.  we partner with vendors across the globe who are dedicated to  working with the blind and low vision community in many different  capacities, from hiring blind or low vision narrators, quality  controllers and co-author/editors to working with the community  and local organizations to gather feedback through focus groups.  guidelines for the creation of ad, timed text style guides, gaming  accessibility and minimizing photosensitivity issues – flashes or  patterns that could cause ill-effects in our audiences, are also  publicly available to share best practices amongst industry peers.  inclusion and diversity responsible products environment governance social introduction appendix  netflix esg report      making our service more accessible  over the past year, we kicked off our first tour of barrier free  accessible screenings  in new orleans, los angeles,  london, new york city, and seoul. audiences came together  to experience the thrill of the gray man , stranger things  s ,  and jung_e  in theaters with open ad and sdh.  there is more to be done. that’s why netflix is committed  to working with the industry, community and policymakers  to deliver more inclusive and accessible entertainment to  the world.  inclusion and diversity responsible products    environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report   governance  from our earliest innovation of dvd-by-mail to  becoming one of the world’s leading entertainment  services, we’ve managed our business for the long  term and focused on pleasing our members. this  approach has served our members, employees and  shareholders well over the past   years.  environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    corporate governance enterprise risk ethics and compliance ip protection & data piracy  corporate governance  our corporate governance structure  was built to find the  right balance of rights and responsibilities among  shareholders, the board and management, and ensure that  there are appropriate checks and balances in place. with  the rapid evolution of technology and the changing media  landscape, we are continually adjusting our service to meet the  needs and desires of our consumers. our governance  structure has been deliberately constructed to help us to  do that.  board composition and structure  our board is composed of   highly experienced, talented and  qualified directors with experience as board members and  executives at some of the world’s most successful companies. we  believe that the board is well situated to navigate the changing  competitive terrain that netflix operates within. the board has led  netflix through its evolution from a us-only dvd business to a  leading global streaming service and from a licensor of second run  content to one of the biggest producers of films and series in the world, while effectively managing risk and overseeing  management performance. we believe that a diverse mix of skills,  experience, perspectives and backgrounds contribute to an  effective board. the composition of our board has evolved over  the past several years, and when looking to fill board positions, we  will continue to evaluate potential candidates who we believe  complement and augment our current board. the nominating and  governance committee considers a number of factors, including  those depicted below, as well as characteristics such as gender,  ethnic or racial background, and national origin when evaluating  potential board candidates.  innovation  knowledge of how  to anticipate  consumer and  technological  trends content  experience  with the  entertainment and  media industry international  expertise in global  business cultures  and consumer  preferences  strategy alignment  our board has the experience and expertise that aligns  with these important facets of our long-term strategy   netflix approach to governance   environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    executive directors  reed hastings  executive chairman  of the board  ted sarandos  co-chief executive officer  and president of the  company and director independent directors  greg peters  co-chief executive officer  and president of the  company and director jay c. hoag  lead independent  director, nominating and  governance committee  (chair)  brad smith  independent director,  nominating and  governance committee timothy haley  independent director,  compensation  committee (chair) ann mather  independent director,  audit committee (chair)  anne sweeney  independent director,  compensation committee richard barton  independent director,  audit committee  strive masiyiwa  independent director,  nominating and  governance committee mathias döpfner  independent director,  compensation committee leslie kilgore  independent director,  audit committee  as of the end of  , women made up  %  of our independent directors and  %  of our overall board. one independent director comes from a  historically excluded ethnic and/or racial background. we maintain our current board diversity matrix on our investor relations website .   ir.netflix.net  corporate governance enterprise risk ethics and compliance ip protection & data piracy environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    board oversight  the board’s role in our risk oversight process includes reviewing  and discussing with members of management areas of material  risk to the company, including overall enterprise, strategic,  operational, financial and legal risks. the board oversees the  company’s esg efforts, which includes human capital  management, inclusion, diversity, sustainability and other matters.  the board also oversees succession planning. the board receives  regular updates from management typically in the form of an  interactive memo, where directors ask questions to management,  and further discuss matters at meetings. each of the committees  oversee various esg matters, depending on the specific issues.  committees report to the full board regarding their respective  considerations and actions. the board  the board as a whole oversees matters related  to enterprise, strategic, operational, financial and  legal risk and the company’s esg efforts.  nominating and  governance  committee  primary committee  responsible for board  structure, governance and  director independence, as  well as assisting the board  in overseeing esg matters audit  committee  oversees matters of  financial and legal  risk, including  cybersecurity risk compensation  committee  oversees risks related  to compensation issues  company management  the executive team, led by our co-chief executive officers,  supervises day-to-day risk management processes, including  identifying, assessing, monitoring, managing and mitigating  significant business risks. company management reports to the board  on an annual basis, or more frequently if needed, top areas of risk.  corporate governance enterprise risk ethics and compliance ip protection & data piracy environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    governance structure  streaming is now an established business, netflix is self-funding  and expects sustained positive free cash flow, and we’ve  substantially scaled our revenues, operating profit and margins. as  such, we have recently evolved to a more standard large-cap  governance structure. at our   annual meeting, the netflix  board proposed and stockholders approved significant changes to  our corporate governance structure. we implemented a phased-in  declassification of our board, with directors elected at this year’s  annual meeting serving one-year terms and the entire board  standing for annual elections beginning in   and beyond. we  also eliminated supermajority voting provisions in our amended  and restated articles of incorporation (the “charter”) and our  amended and restated bylaws (the “bylaws”), provided  shareholders with the ability to call special meetings, and adopted  a majority voting standard in uncontested director elections. we  also adopted a market standard director resignation policy. here is  a summary of our corporate governance best practices and  stockholder rights: one share, one vote:  we have a single class of shares with each  share entitled to one vote.  majority voting standard : we have a majority voting standard in  uncontested director elections. any incumbent director who fails to  receive a majority of votes cast in an uncontested election must tender  their resignation to the board. the nominating and governance  committee would then make a recommendation to the board about  whether to accept or reject the resignation or take other action.  annual director elections (fully declassified by  ) : we have  phased-in the declassification of our board with directors elected at  this year’s annual meeting serving one-year terms and the entire  board standing for annual elections beginning in   and beyond.  elimination of supermajority voting:  we eliminated supermajority  voting provisions in our charter and bylaws.  proxy access : a group of up to   stockholders, owning at least    % of shares continuously for at least three years may nominate up   to two directors or  % of the board (whichever is greater) for   inclusion in our proxy statement.  stockholder right to call a special meeting : stockholders holding a  not less than  % net-long position in the company continuously  for at least one year may call a special meeting.  corporate governance enterprise risk ethics and compliance ip protection & data piracy environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    shareholder engagement  we strive to stay in tune with our ownership base. our board  and our management team engage directly and regularly with  our shareholders, and our board and its committees consider  shareholders’ feedback in assessing our governance structure,  including our compensation program. since our   annual  meeting, we have invited   shareholders, representing  approximately  %  of our shares outstanding to participate in  calls to discuss our executive compensation program and other  matters that are top of mind . we conducted two rounds of  investor outreach – one in the summer of   and one in early   , to ensure we fully understood shareholder feedback,  concerns and perspectives. members of the netflix legal and  investor relations teams met with   shareholders, representing  approximately  %  of our shares outstanding. independent  directors of the board participated in a majority of these  engagements, meeting with shareholders representing  approximately  % of our shares outstanding. we also  engaged with the proxy advisory firms, glass lewis and  institutional shareholder services (iss). these engagements  provide a direct opportunity to exchange information and  perspectives, and the input from our shareholders will continue  to inform our ongoing esg programs as we evolve and grow.    percentages are based on shares outstanding as of december  ,  .  corporate governance enterprise risk ethics and compliance ip protection & data piracy  environment governance social introduction appendix   netflix esg report    ip protection & data piracy  we regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents,  domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies  and similar intellectual property as important to our success. we  use a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret  laws and confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary  intellectual property. we employ a variety of methods to monitor  potential infringement of our intellectual property, including  searches conducted internally and by external vendors. a  particular focus is preventing uses of our intellectual property that  may lead to consumer fraud.  enterprise risk  we review enterprise risks on an ongoing basis and seek ways of  managing risk to help create, preserve and realize value for our  members and shareholders. our approach to enterprise risk  management (erm) is consistent with the coso framework  which  defines erm as “the culture, capabilities, and practices, integrated  with strategy-setting and performance, that organizations rely on  to manage risk in creating, preserving, and realizing value”. on an  annual basis, our internal audit team facilitates an enterprise risk  assessment.  we gather insights from a number of internal and  external sources, including discussions with executives for their  views on enterprise risks that the company is facing and compile  an inventory of risks across the business. the findings of this  assessment, including mitigation approaches, are presented to the  board for their input and oversight. we also report these risks in  our annual report. corporate governance enterprise risk ethics and compliance ip protection & data piracy    netflix, inc. annual report on form  -k for the year ended december  ,    environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report    ethics and compliance  we are committed to managing our business ethically and with  integrity. our code of ethics  sets out our expectations for conduct  among our employees and board members. we encourage  reporting of breaches of our code or any unethical or inappropriate  conduct to our chief legal officer or, in the case of misconduct by  a senior financial officer, to the chair of our audit committee. we  also provide access to a third-party operated service where reports  of misconduct can be made confidentially and, if desired,  anonymously,   hours a day, seven days a week,   days a year   in local languages. reports made through this service are elevated  and investigated until they are resolved, and updates are provided  annually to the audit committee.  as part of our commitment to managing our business ethically  and with integrity, we seek to identify and mitigate risks that  could lead to potential legal and/or regulatory violations through  an annual compliance risk assessment process. our global anti-corruption policy requires our employees and  contractors to abide by global anti-corruption and anti-bribery  laws. we provide regular training on compliance with this policy,  in addition to conducting regular and ongoing risk assessments.  a copy of our practices and policies, which includes the global  anti-corruption policy and code of ethics , has been translated  into numerous languages and remains available to all employees  throughout their employment with us.  other areas of focus include commitments to compliance with  applicable government mandated sanctions regimes (with  leadership provided by a designated sanctions compliance  officer) as well as compliance with human rights legislation  (e.g., the uk modern slavery act ).   uk modern slavery act statement available on our ir website  corporate governance enterprise risk ethics and compliance ip protection & data piracy environment governance social introduction appendix  appendix    environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report   about this report  this report covers the calendar year   and all data included in  the report is from that time period unless otherwise noted. refer to  data tables in this appendix for a summary of esg data for   as  well as published data from previous years. this report is also  reflective of global netflix operations unless otherwise noted. this  report is informed by external esg reporting frameworks including  the sustainability accounting and standard board (sasb)   “internet media & services” and “media & entertainment”  standards, as well as the task force on climate-related financial  disclosures (tcfd) . sasb and tcfd indices are provided in  this appendix.  forward-looking statements  the information covered by the report contains forward-looking  statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation  reform act of   including, but not limited to, statements  regarding our esg programs, activities, plans, policies, goals,  targets, objectives, commitments, projections, expectations and  strategies that are not historical in nature.  these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and  uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ,  including any failure to meet stated esg goals and commitments,  and execute our strategies in the time frame expected or at all, as a  result of many factors, including changing government regulations  or stakeholder expectations, and our expansion into new products,  services, technologies, and geographic regions.  more information on risks, uncertainties, and other potential factors  that could affect our business and performance is included in our  filings with the sec, including in item  a: “risk factors” section of  the company’s most recently filed periodic reports on form  -k,  form  -q and subsequent filings. all forward-looking statements  included in this document are based on information available to us  on the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to revise or  publicly release any revision to any such forward-looking  statement, except as may otherwise be required by law. about this report esg data tables sasb index tcfd index resources ghg inventory methodology carbon credit project screening criteria  environment governance social introduction appendix  data point  paid memberships  employees  revenue (usd millions)      million   ,    ,  esg data table       million   ,    ,        million   ,    ,        million   ,    ,   data point  electricity (mwh)  global renewable electricity (%)  scope   emissions (metric tons c -e)  scope   emissions, market-based (metrics tons c -e)  scope   emissions, location-based (metric tons c -e)  scope   emissions, target-based (metric tons c -e)  scope   + scope   (market-based) emissions (metric tons c -e)  scope   + scope   (target-based) emissions (metric tons c -e)  scope   emissions (metric tons c -e)  total ghg emissions: scope   + scope   (market-based) +  scope   (metric tons c -e)  carbon credits     ,       ,       ,    ,    ,    ,    , ,    , ,   ( , )     ,       ,       ,    ,    ,    ,    , ,    , ,   ( , )      ,       ,      ,    ,    ,    ,    , ,    , ,   ( , , )      ,       ,      ,    ,    ,    ,    , ,    , ,   ( , , )  general  environment  netflix esg report     about this report esg data tables sasb index tcfd index resources ghg inventory methodology carbon credit project screening criteria  environment governance social introduction appendix  data point  representation data: all job levels  global gender identity, % women  global gender identity, % men  global gender identity, % additional gender identities  us race ethnicity, % asian  us race ethnicity, % black  us race ethnicity, % hispanic/latino/a/x  us race ethnicity, % middle eastern/north african  us race ethnicity, % native american/alaskan native  us race ethnicity, % native hawaiian/other pacific islander  us race ethnicity, % white  us race ethnicity, %   or more races/ethnicities   ¹,   .    .   gender identity that allowed employees  to self-identify from non-binary  categories were added in     .    .   .   .   .   .   .    .   esg data table     .    .    .   .    .    .    .   .   .   .   starting in  , data collection methods were  implemented to allow employees to share multiple  self-identities (e.g., black and asian compared to “   or more races/ethnicities”)     .    .    .   .    .    .    .   .   .   .   social netflix esg report    ¹our progress on inclusion:   update     data for   race/ethnicity differs than data for subsequent years due to changes in data collection methods implemented  in   that enabled employees to share multiple self-identities (e.g., black and asian, compared to “multi-race”).      inclusion report update      inclusion report update about this report esg data tables sasb index tcfd index resources ghg inventory methodology carbon credit project screening criteria  environment governance social introduction appendix  data point  representation data: director+ job levels  global gender identity, % women  global gender identity, % men  global gender identity, % additional gender identities  us race ethnicity, % asian  us race ethnicity, % black  us race ethnicity, % hispanic/latino/a/x  us race ethnicity, % middle eastern/north african  us race ethnicity, % native american/alaskan native  us race ethnicity, % native hawaiian/other pacific islander  us race ethnicity, % white  us race ethnicity, %   or more races/ethnicities   ¹,   .    .   gender identity that allowed employees  to self-identify from non-binary  categories were added in     .    .    .   .   .   .   .    .     .    .    .   .    .    .   .   .   .   .   data collection methods that allowed employees to  share multiple self-identities (e.g., black and asian  compared to “  or more races/ethnicities”) were  implemented in  .     .    .    .   .    .    .   .   .   .   .   netflix esg report    ¹our progress on inclusion:   update     data for   race/ethnicity differs than data for subsequent years due to changes in data collection methods implemented  in   that enabled employees to share multiple self-identities (e.g., black and asian, compared to “multi-race”).      inclusion report update      inclusion report update esg data table  social (continued) about this report esg data tables sasb index tcfd index resources ghg inventory methodology carbon credit project screening criteria  environment governance social introduction appendix             data point  other social data  employee giving program total donations (usd)  number of government requests to remove content     —      ~  million    netflix esg report    data point  board of directors (number of directors)  board of directors (number of independent directors)  gender representation on board of directors  (number of women directors)  race/ethnicity representation on board of directors  (number of directors from historically excluded ethnic  and/or racial background)         self-reported demographic data was not collected from our  board before    self-reported demographic data was not collected from our  board before           governance     —     data is based on the information included in each year's annual meeting proxy statement. esg data table  social (continued) about this report esg data tables sasb index tcfd index resources ghg inventory methodology carbon credit project screening criteria  environment governance social introduction appendix   sasb index  internet media & services, media & entertainment  netflix esg report    topic  entity-defined measure of  user activity  environmental footprint of  hardware infrastructure sasb code  tc-im- .a  tc-im- a.   tc-im- a.   tc-im- a.   tc-im- a.   tc-im- a.   tc-im- a.   accounting metric  paid memberships  total energy consumed (mwh)  percentage grid electricity  percentage renewable  total energy consumed (mwh)  percentage grid electricity  percentage renewable  discussion of the integration of environmental  considerations into strategic planning for data  center needs  description of policies and practices relating to  behavioral advertising and user privacy  number of users whose information is used for  secondary purposes  number of government requests to remove content,  percentage compliance with requests       million   ,    %   %   ,    %   %  refer to the sustainability across the value   chain  section of the report.  refer to the privacy section of the report and  the netflix privacy statement . refer to the privacy section of the report and  the netflix privacy statement .    %       million   ,    %   %   ,    %   %     %       million   ,    %   %   ,    %   %     %  environmental footprint of  remaining scope   environmental footprint of  hardware infrastructure internet media & services: sustainability accounting standard  data privacy, advertising  standards & freedom  of expression    only includes scope   hardware infrastructure, i.e. netflix-operated open connect appliances in colocation data centers, which represent approximately  / th of scope   and   data  center electricity use (all open connect and aws combined).    while sasb only requires reporting for the “environmental footprint of hardware infrastructure,” netflix has opted to report on its other scope   energy consumption as well, which  includes electricity use in corporate offices, production studios, and billboards, in addition to colocation data center infrastructure. about this report esg data tables sasb index tcfd index resources ghg inventory methodology carbon credit project screening criteria  environment governance social introduction appendix  internet media & services: sustainability accounting standard (continued)   sasb code  tc-im- a.   tc-im- a.   sv-me- .a  sv-me- a.   sv-me- a.   accounting metric  description of approach to identifying and addressing  data security risks, including use of third-party  cybersecurity standards  percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group  representation for ( ) management, ( ) technical staff,  and ( ) all other employees  ( ) total recipients of media and the number of ( )  households reached by broadcast tv, ( ) subscribers  to cable networks, and ( ) circulation for magazines  and newspapers  percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group  representation for ( ) management, ( ) professionals,  and ( ) all other employees  media and entertainment: sustainability accounting standard topic  data security  employee recruitment,  inclusion & performance  activity metric  media pluralism  intellectual property  protection & media piracy  sasb index (continued)     refer to the information and cybersecurity   section of the report  refer to netflix employee representation data  in the representation data  section of the report  as well as in the data table  in this appendix.  information on how netflix fosters equitable  employee representation across its global  operations can be found in the inclusion   section of the esg report.  as noted in the entity-defined measure of user  activity above, there were   million paid  netflix memberships at the end of  ,    million in  , and   million in  .  refer to netflix employee representation data  in the representation data  section of the report  as well as in the data table  in this appendix.  information on how netflix fosters equitable  employee representation across its global  operations can be found in the inclusion   section of the esg report.  refer to the ip protection and piracy  section  of the report        about this report esg data tables sasb index tcfd index resources ghg inventory methodology carbon credit project screening criteria  environment governance social introduction appendix  governance: disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities tcfd disclosure requirement  describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks  and opportunities  describe management’s role in assessing and  managing climate related risks and opportunities  describe the climate-related risks and opportunities  the organization has identified over the short, medium,  and long term  describe the impact of climate-related risks and  opportunities on the organization’s businesses,  strategy, and financial planning  describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy,  taking into consideration different climate-related  scenarios, including a  °c or lower scenario   tcfd index  netflix disclosures  the netflix board oversees the company’s esg efforts, which includes sustainability, with  the assistance of the nominating and governance committee. they regularly receive  updates on sustainability and enterprise risk management at board meetings. refer to the  climate risk  section of the esg report.  our chief financial officer (cfo) oversees management decisions related to our  sustainability programs, which are led by our netflix sustainability officer. our internal  audit team performs an annual company-wide enterprise risk assessment, in which  climate risks are considered, and the findings of this assessment are shared with our board  annually. refer to the climate risk  section of the esg report.  refer to the risks and opportunities tables in the climate risk  section of the esg report.  strategy: disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial  planning where such information is material  netflix esg report   about this report esg data tables sasb index tcfd index resources ghg inventory methodology carbon credit project screening criteria  environment governance social introduction appendix  risk management: disclose how the organization identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks tcfd disclosure requirement  describe the organization’s processes for identifying  and assessing climate-related risk  describe the organization’s processes for managing  climate-related risks  describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and  managing climate-related risks are integrated into the  organization’s overall risk management  disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess  climate related risks and opportunities in line with its  strategy and risk management process  disclose scope  , scope  , and, if appropriate, scope    greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions, and the related risks  describe the targets used by the organization to  manage climate related risks and opportunities and  performance against targets  netflix disclosures  we conducted an initial climate risk assessment at the end of  . this evaluation looked  at a range of climate risks as defined by the task force on climate-related disclosures,  including physical, regulatory, reputational, market, legal and transitional risks. we also  referenced the esg-specific committee of sponsoring organizations’ ( coso) framework   and intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) research to build a climate risk  framework to assess netflix risk. while the assessment was a useful exercise, the climate  risks we identified were all mapped to risk mitigation strategies already in place or underway.  the output of this climate risk assessment was also used as an input into our enterprise risk  management (erm) assessment. when evaluated using our erm methodology, no  standalone climate-related risks were identified as significant for the company.  refer to the public climate targets  and carbon footprint  sections of the esg report for  information on our metrics, emissions and targets. measuring our performance against our  climate targets over time helps to inform our climate risk assessment process, in particular  our transition risks.  metrics & targets: disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such  information is material  netflix esg report    tcfd index about this report esg data tables sasb index tcfd index resources ghg inventory methodology carbon credit project screening criteria  environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report   resources  esg report archive  environmental social governance report    environmental social governance report    environmental social governance report    environment  about netflix - sustainability  our progress on sustainability: two years in   what the latest research on streaming emissions tells us   general motors and netflix partner to give evs the stage they deserve  flip the script on sustainability storytelling  earth month collection celebrates our planet and its heroes  carbon impact of video streaming    greenhouse gas emissions inventory assurance letter  social  about netflix - inclusion     inclusion report update  netflix fund for creative equity l   update   inclusion in netflix original films & series - executive summary  inclusion in netflix film & series - full report  netflix eeo-  reports  political activity disclosures   governance    proxy statement   netflix approach to corporate governance  l study by stanford graduate  school of business corporate governance research initiative  netflix governance documents   leadership & directors  about this report esg data tables sasb index tcfd index resources ghg inventory methodology carbon credit project screening criteria  environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report   greenhouse gas emissions (ghg)  inventory methodology  netflix reports its emissions following the world resources institute (wri) /  world business council for sustainable development’s (wbcsd) greenhouse  gas protocol corporate standard, as amended by the ghg protocol scope    guidance, as well as wri / wbcsd’s greenhouse gas protocol corporate  value chain (scope  ) accounting and reporting standard and technical  guidance for calculating scope   emissions (collectively, the ghg protocol).  netflix ghg emissions reporting follows the operational control approach set  out by the ghgp.  our reported emissions account for all ghgs covered by the unfccc kyoto   protocol (annex a)  relevant to netflix activities and are converted into metric  tons of carbon dioxide equivalents (mtco e) as specified by the ghg  protocol. all emission factors are applied to the data and updated annually  to reflect the latest guidance and factors published by us epa emission  factors for greenhouse gas inventories ( ), us epa egrid   electricity grid emission factors ( ) and uk defra greenhouse gas  reporting conversion factors ( ). additionally, where data is not available  or of sufficient quality, netflix uses proxy data, industry-average figures, or  expert assumptions. in such instances, we use third-party  sources for reliability and completeness.  some of these data sets such as the average building energy use intensity  values from the doe commercial building energy consumption survey  ( ), are held constant to maintain consistency across years.   netflix’s greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions reporting is consistent with the  “operational control” approach as set out by the ghg protocol corporate  accounting and reporting standard: revised edition. the organizational  and operational boundary applies to the global company including its  subsidiaries, the office and studio facilities we own and operate (e.g.,  albuquerque studios) as well as facilities we lease from others but over  which we have meaningful operational control (e.g., corporate and studio  offices and stages).  our footprint boundary  scope   and  : our emissions include all scope   (direct) and scope    (indirect emissions) from the following: our corporate operations (offices,  etc); the production of our films, series and games; and the storage and  delivery of our content. scope   emissions are calculated using  market-based and location-based emissions accounting methods defined  by the ghg protocol scope   guidance. location-based estimates  are calculated based on the emissions intensity of the locations where the  electricity consumption occurs. the market-based method incorporates  electricity procurement decisions that are chosen within the local electricity  market, including zero-carbon electricity supply from utilities (i.e., opt-in  “green tariff” rates) and contractual instruments such as renewable energy  certificates (recs).  about this report esg data tables sasb index tcfd index resources ghg inventory methodology carbon credit project screening criteria  environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report   we also use a target-based emissions accounting method relative to our  science=based targets, which is custom to netflix. target-based emissions  incorporate direct renewable energy supply (e.g., onsite generation, utility &  landlord supply, power purchase agreements or direct investments) but do  not account for emissions from contractual instruments such as renewable  energy certificates (recs).  scope  : netflix also estimates and reports relevant scope   categories,  which therefore includes activities outside of our operational control.  our  scope   boundary was established in alignment with the ghg protocol  corporate and scope   standards. netflix includes all relevant and material  sources of emissions including categories  - ,  -  and  . in the future, we  aim to include category   (emissions related to waste in operations) by  improving our direct data collection. for now, most estimated waste-related  emissions in our footprint are captured in category   (purchased goods &  services) using spend-based estimates on facilities management and  production operations.  scope   emissions use location-based emissions factors except where  individual suppliers provided supplier specific emissions that are  market-based (e.g., aws) or through application of recs to scope    emissions where information on the specific energy consumption by location  was available (e.g., for the open connect network) in order to match the  contractual instrument to known energy consumption in accordance with  ghg protocol scope   guidance. netflix works with individual suppliers,  wherever possible, to determine that any renewable contractual instruments  applied to their emissions are appropriately attributed.  we include all netflix-branded content productions, whether we manage the  production directly (like the sea beast, spirit rangers, don’t look up, our  great national parks ), or through a third-party production company (like  glass onion: a knives out mystery, the elephant whisperers ) as well as all  content that we license that is netflix-branded (like octonauts: above and  beyond, captain nova, down to earth with zac efron ). activities outside of  our operational control present challenges to measuring and reducing  emissions, but because so much of production infrastructure, crew and  equipment are shared across studios, we believe that holding ourselves  accountable for all emissions from netflix-branded content (wherever it is  produced) will create a positive ripple effect across our own emissions as  well as the entire industry.  data management  we maintain a greenhouse gas inventory management plan to ensure  consistency of calculating and estimating emissions from year to year, and to  provide to our  rd party assurance providers as a basis for their audit of our  emissions. we maintain documentation as evidence to support our emissions  inventory and follow netflix retention policies for these records. in  , we  began implementing a carbon accounting software solution to help  streamline and mature our data collection processes, and to help maintain  related documentation. about this report esg data tables sasb index tcfd index resources ghg inventory methodology carbon credit project screening criteria  environment governance social introduction appendix    netflix esg report   carbon credit project screening criteria  screen  : competitive selection  our competitive requests for proposals (rfps) are issued widely, to over    project developers, non-profits, brokers and credit retailers across  many project types and geographies.  screen  : deep project- level diligence and impact screening  our team then conducts due diligence on the projects and holds live  interviews directly with the project developers and/or trusted project  partners. this includes research on the projects, their proponents and other  local stakeholders. engaging directly with the project hosts enables a screen  : meet core quality criteria  any credits that we purchase must meet globally recognized core quality  criteria: they must be additional, verified, based on a realistic baseline, not  double counted and issued by a credible standard that has robust  provisions in place to address permanence (the risk of reversal) and  leakage (the risk of displacing emissions from one location to another).  we only purchase credits that have been third-party verified and  registered on a trusted registry, including – verra, gold standard, climate  action reserve and american carbon registry – or have demonstrated an  equivalent level of rigor. deeper understanding of the unique circumstances and conditions that  surround a particular carbon credit project and how and why it came to be.  we also conduct additional screens for: local community ownership and  direct benefit sharing; job creation and training; women and girls  empowerment; biodiversity and habitat restoration and protection (e.g.,  verra climate, community & biodiversity certified projects); and climate  resilience impacts.  screen  : use digital tools and resources to improve visibility  where feasible, we use technology to enhance project validation and  verification, such as ai-powered satellite imagery, machine learning and  remote sensing analysis.  screen  : seek additional expert advice  netflix relies on its expert advisory group to provide additional insight and  guidance on an ongoing basis across a range of key issues, including our  carbon credit portfolio. this helps us identify things we may have missed. about this report esg data tables sasb index tcfd index resources ghg inventory methodology carbon credit project screening criteria  environment governance social introduction appendix  learn more   about.netflix.com    ir.netflix.com   corporate social responsibility report     introduction    letter from our executive chair & ceo    about fox     our approach    fiscal year   highlights     community forward     giving for good    fox forward     giving across the company             people forward    inclusion & diversity    compensation & benefits     work-life balance & workplace flexibility     learning & development    fostering workplace civility & respect     sustainably forward    environmental employee engagement      ehs program    resource efficiency & emissions    industry collaboration &   environmental initiatives    supply chain management        policy forward    our policies    ethics & compliance    dynamic risk assessments    data forward    data privacy policy     data privacy program    data security    sasb appendix   contents   introduction at fox corporation, our responsibility to be an   active and engaged corporate citizen is held as a core value, and fox has cultivated the kind of  relationship with our viewers, employees and  stakeholders that provides us with opportunities to  positively affect our communities. our commitment to corporate social responsibility has continued to grow in the three years since the company was established through the expansion of fox forward, our company-wide philanthropic initiative. this year, our fox forward initiatives were focused  on three pillars: serving veterans and active-duty military members, enhancing educational  opportunities for underserved students and  investing in our local communities through our  partnerships, financial donations, volunteer efforts and magnification across our media assets. the power of fox forward and the fox brand was  perhaps best exemplified by our efforts to support the american red cross’ humanitarian aid efforts in ukraine earlier this year. we kicked off our   fundraising campaign with a $  million corporate gift to the red cross, but it was soon matched by more than tenfold. in just two weeks, over $  million was  raised by our employees and our viewers through a  giving campaign that ran across every fox platform, in daytime, primetime and online. the passion and generosity of our extended fox family was truly overwhelming, and the money raised represented nearly a third of the funds donated to the red cross’ humanitarian effort in the region. while fox forward’s mission is to positively   impact the lives of the people and the communities it serves, it also benefits our employees and various stakeholders. our team members report being  gratified by our community engagement and actively volunteer their own time and resources in support  of this unifying work. further, the impact we make  through fox forward deepens our viewers’  appreciation of our brands.in addition to showcasing our fox forward   initiatives for the last year, this report will highlight fox’s forward-thinking efforts in sustainability, employee benefits and resources, data security   and more. in thinking holistically about our   stakeholders, our strategic business objectives   and our capacity for driving measurable impact,   we are able to focus our resources to make   meaningful advances in these key areas. we will continue to do our part as a citizen of   the global community and to move fox forward  together. lachlan murdoch  executive chair and ceo, fox corporation introduction letter from our executive chair & ceo about fox  our approach  fiscal year   highlights   community forward  people forwardsustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendix letter from our   executive chair and ceo about fox corporation introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights  community forward  people forwardsustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendixfox corporation produces and distributes compelling news, sports and entertainment content through its primary   iconic domestic brands, including fox news media, fox sports, fox entertainment and fox television stations, and leading avod service tubi.  these brands hold cultural significance with consumers and commercial importance for distributors and advertisers.   the breadth and depth of our footprint allows us to deliver content that engages and informs audiences, develop deeper  consumer relationships and create more compelling product offerings. fox maintains an impressive track record of  news, sports and entertainment industry success that shapes our strategy to capitalize on existing strengths and invest  in new initiatives. fox news media operates the fox news  channel (fnc), fox business network (fbn), fox news digital, fox news audio, fox news books, the direct-to-consumer  streaming services fox nation and fox news  international and the free adverstising-supported streaming service fox weather. currently the number one network in all of cable, fnc has also been the most watched cable television news channel for more than   consecutive years, while fbn is the top  business channel on cable. fox news media  reaches   million people each month.fox sports is the umbrella entity representing fox corporation’s wide array of multi-platform u.s.-based sports assets. fox sports includes national networks fs , fs  and fox deportes  as well as fox soccer plus and a majority  stake in the big ten network. fox sports has delivered the most watched television program, nfl’s  america’s game of the week   on fox, for   consecutive years.fox entertainment’s  -year legacy of innovative, hit programming includes  - - ,  the masked singer, the simpsons and  the x-files. the fox network has ranked  among the top two networks in the     to   year old audience for the past   broadcast seasons. fox entertainment oversees the operations of fox alternative entertainment, its in-house unscripted   studio; the award-winning animation studio bento box entertainment; tubi, its fast- growing avod service; and blockchain  creative labs, a web  media and creative technology company formed to build, launch, manage and sell nft content, experiences and assets. in  , fox entertainment launched production venture studio ramsay global to develop, produce and distribute  lifestyle programming for fox and tubi.   also in  , fox acquired tmz and marvista entertainment, which creates original content for networks and streamers.fox television stations owns and operates   full power broadcast television stations in the u.s. these include stations located in   of the top   largest designated market  areas, or dmas, and duopolies in   dmas,  including the three largest dmas (new york, los angeles and chicago). of these stations,   are affiliated with the fox network. in addition to distributing sports, entertainment and syndicated content, our television stations collectively produce approximately   ,  hours of local news every week. these  stations leverage viewer, distributor and advertiser demand for the fox network’s national content.    cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements certain statements in this report may constitute “forward-looking statements” within  the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of  . words such as  “may,” “will,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “estimate,” “committed,”  “desire,” “seek,” “plan” and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. these statements are based on management’s current expectations and beliefs and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements in this report due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological, strategic and/or regulatory factors, the impact of coronavirus disease   and other widespread health  emergencies or pandemics and measures to contain their spread, and other factors  affecting the operation of the business of fox corporation, the achievement of the goals, targets and commitments and the implementation or continuation of the programs described in this report. more detailed information about risk factors affecting fox corporation is contained in the documents fox corporation has filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission including its annual report on form  -k. additionally, terms such as “esg,” “impact” and “sustainability” can be subjective in  nature, and there is no representation or guarantee that these terms, as used in this  report, will reflect the beliefs or values, policies, principles, frameworks or preferred practices of any particular investor or other third party or reflect market trends. any esg, climate or impact goals, commitments, incentives and initiatives outlined in this report are, unless explicitly stated otherwise in this report, purely voluntary, are not binding on our business and/or management and do not constitute a guarantee, promise or commitment regarding actual or potential positive impacts or outcomes. statements in this report speak only as of the date they were made, and fox corporation  undertakes no duty to update or release any revisions to any forward-looking statement made in this report or to report any events or circumstances after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or to conform such statements to actual results or changes in fox corporation’s expectations, except as required by law.board of directors and committee activity the board of directors plays an active role in developing our overall business and risk  management strategies including issues relating to our corporate social responsibility.  in particular, the nominating and corporate governance committee of the board  oversees, reviews and monitors the company’s e fforts on sustainability and corporate  social responsibility and related risks, including reporting with respect thereto, and  provides guidance to the board of directors on such matters. the compensation committee of the board ( ) reviews the company’s compensation  policies and practices applicable to all employees to determine whether they create  risk-taking incentives that are reasonably likely to have a material adverse impact on the company and ( ) assists the board, as necessary, in reviewing and assessing the company’s strategies and policies related to human capital management. the audit committee of the board ( ) oversees the company’s policies and practices  with respect to risk assessment and risk management including with respect to data  privacy and security, ( ) oversees procedures to evaluate alleged violations of the  standards of business conduct and ( ) reviews with the company’s counsel and management any legal or regulatory matter that could have a significant impact on the company’s financial statements.  the company’s management team executes, monitors and adjusts corporate  responsibility efforts consistent with our core values to best serve the interests of the  company and our stakeholders. introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights  community forward  people forwardsustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendix new york wnyw-tv fox corporation oﬃcesfox news media headquarters phoenix ksaz- tv kutp-tvtempe fox technology centerlos angeles kttv-tvkcop-tvfox corporation oﬃcesfox deportesfox entertainmentfox news los angeles bureau fox sports headquartersfox studio lotfox television stationssan francisco ktvu-tvkicu- tvwashington dc wttg-tvwdca-tvfox news washington, d.c., bureau gainesville wogx-tv orlando wofl-tvwrbw-tv tampa wtvt-tvatlanta waga- tv fox news atlanta bureauchicago wfld-tvwpwr- tv big ten networkfox news chicago bureaudetroit wjbk-tvmilwaukee witi-tvminneapolis-st. paul kmsp- tv wftc-tv secaucus, nj wwor- tv philadelphia wtxf- tv charlotte fox sports charlotte austin ktbc-tvdallas kdfw-tvkdfi-tvfox news dallas bureau houston kriv-tvktxh-tvboston fox news boston bureau denver fox news denver bureau miami fox news miami bureauseattle kcpq-tvkzjo-tvfox news seattle bureau birmingham united states football league  introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights  community forward  people forward sustainably forwardpolicy forward data forwardsasb appendix  our  approach fox corporation (fox) continually endeavors to positively   impact the communities we serve and to conduct our  business in a sustainable and responsible manner. by leveraging our assets and maximizing employee   engagement, we are focused on impacting communities  through, among other things, veterans and military  initiatives, global disaster relief assistance, support of food insecurity programs and by nurturing the next  generation of storytellers and creators. we partner with trusted, leading non-profit organizations committed to  impacting the areas closest to our homes and our hearts,  with a particular focus on los angeles and  new york city, where we have our largest footprint. this corporate social responsibility report provides   an annual summary of our shared value approach  to our corporate giving, environmental, social and   governance (esg) activities. in addition to describing   the commitments and investments that we believe are  critical to the long-term sustainability of our business and our positive impact on our communities, this report also addresses and is guided by the sustainability  accounting standards board (sasb) criteria, found  on page  . we also report through programs   such as carbon disclosure project (cdp), a global   environmental disclosure system, and engage  with esg research analysts, including msci and  sustainalytics, regarding our approach.  the fox corporate social responsibility report covers  our activities during the fiscal year ending june  ,    (fy ), except as otherwise noted. calendar years  (cy) are marked as such or written in a four-digit format.   veterans & first responders   fox, in its current form as fox corporation and in  previous corporate formations, is a vocal and active  advocate for the veteran, active-duty military and first  responder communities and the caregivers and service  organizations who support them. in addition to our  work in los angeles with u.s.vets, our employees, our networks and our audiences consistently rally to support and thank members of our armed services.  youth & education  fox supports the education and creative development of  the next generation of storytellers and creative leaders. in bringing the depth of the creative expertise as well as the resources of fox into the classroom, we are able to create opportunities for students to explore their passion and define their voice. while we look to develop a passion for storytelling and a curiosity about their world at large,  we are also aware that many students struggle to have  their basic needs met to facilitate their learning. fox is committed to filling in the gaps for those students in our community. serving our community  the fox studio lot, with its rich and storied history,   has long been a vital part of the los angeles community.  over the decades, tens of thousands of writers, actors, engineers, directors and other fox colleagues have left their marks creatively and through their commitment  to the surrounding area. we are committed to the well-being of our neighbors and support the local youth, residents, small businesses and community organizations  around each of our business headquarters, including the  cities that are home to all   owned & operated stations. our legacy is one we continue to nurture and grow in and around the fox studio lot.  introduction about fox our approachfiscal year   highlights   community forward  people forwardsustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendix    fiscal year     highlights introduction about fox our approach fiscal year   highlights community forward   people forwardsustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendixtop military friendly®   employer   top employer   by diversitycomm  top lgbtq+ friendly  company    by diversitycomm  top employer    by black eoe journal  .  tons of food donated  in cy , fox donated over  .  tons of  unserved prepared food from the fox studio  lot to local food banks and non-profit  organizations, helping to minimize waste  while feeding those in need.  ,  trees planted  fox engaged our employees in a virtual   race for reforestation, where the company  planted one tree for each mile raced.  .  tons of   supplies donated  in cy , fox provided  .  tons of lumber,  clothing, office supplies and furniture to local  organizations, decreasing the amount of waste  diverted to landfills.policy forward fox zealously guards and defends  journalists in their search for the truth,  believing so strongly in these core values  that we have often come to the defense of  our competitors, recognizing that a free  press benefits all of us and requires the  support of each and every one of us. all fox employees must read our   standards of business conduct and global  anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy  and acknowledge that they have done so.  additionally, all employees must complete  the standards of business conduct   training modules.over $ ,  in   resources for students  through initiatives with good sports,  new york police and fire widows’ and  children’s benefit fund and st. jude  children’s research hospital, fox  delivered close to $  million in resources  and support to children throughout the  united states. , +   meals contributed  in collaboration with   feeding america and l.a. regional   food bank, fox provided over    ,  meals to those in need.   million psa   impressions across all our platforms, fox   informs and educates our viewers   on topics including emergency   preparedness, caregiver assistance   and covid-  vaccine education.  , + non-profits   supported  through fox forward initiatives and   the fox giving employee matching   program, fox has supported over  ,   non-profit organizations.sustainably forwardfox is committed to safeguarding   information in its possession against   loss, theft and unauthorized use,   disclosure or modification. fox conducts annual mandatory   company-wide cybersecurity   compliance training, fosters   awareness during cybersecurity  awareness month, releases monthly  cybersecurity training videos and   conducts regular targeted   employee training.over $ .  million in support  of veterans, military   and first responders fox supports our veterans, active military, first responders and their caregivers through  organizations including building homes for heroes, the tunnel to towers foundation,  elizabeth dole foundation and the uso. community forward people forward top employer    by hispanic network magazine top employer    by professional woman’s magazine top employer    by u.s. veterans magazine best places to work    for disability inclusion by   the disability equality index data forward  .  million gallons saved  at the fox studio lot, we saved more than   ,  gallons of water by replacing lawn with  artificial turf and installed a computerized  irrigation system that saves  .  million gallons  of water each year. since its formation three years ago, fox corporation has contributed  more than $  million to the communities we serve through the   fox forward initiative. over the last year, fox’s annual giving was highlighted by three $  million gifts: • the first gift went to the american red cross southern and  midwest tornadoes campaign to support those directly affected  by last year’s devastating storms; • a second gift was presented to the tunnel to towers foundation’s "fallen first responder home program,” which provides financial assistance to pay mortgages of the families of fallen law enforcement officers and firefighters who lose their lives in the line  of duty or to  / -related illnesses;  • the third gift was to the american red cross humanitarian relief  efforts in ukraine to aid the millions of refugees displaced by the invasion. additionally, our fox giving program matches contributions (dollar for dollar) made by eligible employees to verified non-profit organizations, up to $ ,  per person annually. over the course of the fiscal year, contributions through our fox giving program exceeded $ .  million, attributed to employee donations and volunteer rewards, with the company’s match doubling, and in some select campaigns, tripling the impact of our employees’ contributions to the causes they  care most about. among the over  ,  organizations supported were:  blankets of hope, feeding america, first responders children’s  foundation, kids in need foundation, marine toys for tots foundation, police athletic league and together we rise.  community forward giving for good “i love how many   organizations   are part of fox’s   giving program.    it allows me to support   both national and local  initiatives.thank you to  fox for doubling the  monetary impact of  charities that are near  and dear to my heart.” - washington, d.c.-based fox news   media employee“the fox giving   program enables   me to make an   even larger annual  contribution  to the charities   that matter to me.    i am glad that the company  takes an active part in  helping me support the  causes that i care about.” - los angeles-based fox corporation employee“i have been able   to make a greater   impact for the   charities i give to thanks to fox’s  giving program.    and this year in particular,   i was able to help the  social issues of the day  with fox’s campaigns  that double matched what  i donated.” - new york-based fox television   stations employee introduction about fox  our approach  fiscal year   highlights community forward giving for good fox forwardgiving across the company people forward sustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendix   black men of the philadelphia region inc , a place called home, aapi youth rising, action against hunger usa, adopt a dog  , after-school all -stars, against all odds cat rescue,   alabama appleseed center for law and justice inc, alameda food bank, alexs lemonade stand foundation, ali forney center, alive rescue, allentown rescue mission inc, alliance for children’s rights, alliance of families for justice, along comes hope corporation,  als therapy development institute, alzheimer’s greater los angeles, american brain tumor association, american breast cancer foundation , american cancer society inc, american civil liberties union foundation, american  diabetes association , american farmland trust, american film institute inc, american foundation for suicide prevention, american gold star mothers inc, american heart association, american lung association, american national red cross,  americares foundation, america’s vetdogs the veterans k  corps inc, amnesty international usa   amyotrophic lateral sclerosis association, animal equality,  animal humane society,  animal legal defense fund, anne arundel  county food bank inc, anti-defamation league, apla health & wellness, arizona helping hands, art start, arthritis foundation inc, asian american legal defense and education fund, asian americans advancing justice - los angeles, asian immigrant women advocates,  aspca, atlanta community food bank inc, austin area urban league inc, autism speaks, aviva family and children’s services, ballard food bank, be a mentor inc, best buddies international,  best friends animal society, bethany house services inc,  big brothers & big sisters , black emotional and mental health collective, black girls code inc black village foundation inc, bladder cancer advocacy network inc, blaine county hunger coalition inc,  blankets of hope inc , blue star families inc, bowery mission foundation inc, boys & girls clubs of america, breast cancer research foundation inc,  brooklyn botanic garden corporation, burbank arts education  foundation, camp for all kids, cancer research institute inc, caring for military families the elizabeth dole foundation, catholic relief services, cause for paws inc, center for disaster philanthropy inc, center for the pacific asian family, central arizona shelter  services inc, central park conservancy inc, central texas food bank foundation, cesar e chavez legacy and educational foundation, charlotte symphony orchestra society inc, chicago gay mens chorus, children international, children’s hospital los angeles, chinatown manpower project inc, city harvest inc, city of hope city of refuge inc, close the gap foundation, clothes for kids, coalition for the homeless inc, coalition of asian  pacifics in entertainment foundation inc, community foodbank of new jersey inc, community partners with youth, connecticut childrens medical center, connections for the homeless inc, conserve wildlife foundation of new jersey inc., covenant house, cure  alzheimer’s fund,  curing kids cancer inc, cystic fibrosis foundation - national headquarters, d.a.r.e. america, dana-farber childrens hospital cancer care, defenders of wildlife, detroit friendship house inc, direct relief,  disabled american veteran, doctors without borders, donorschoose.org, downtown womens center of los angeles, earthjustice,  education through music, inc., educational foundation inc, educational media foundation, el segundo education foundation,  emerson arts and education foundation,  entertainment industry foundation,  environmental defense fund incorporated, epilepsy foundation of greater chicago, equal justice america , equal justice initiative,  everytown for gun safety support fund inc, family & childrens service inc, family and child abuse prevention center, fdny foundation, feed our streets, feed the children inc, feeding america, feeding pets of the homeless, first nations development institute,  first responders children’s foundation,  food bank for new york city, food bank of northeast georgia, forgotten children’s fund, foundation for women warriors , freedom to read inc, friends for life animal rescue,  friends of hamilton humanities, fund for the city of new york inc, gary sinise foundation, genesis women’s shelter & support, georgia first amendment foundation inc, georgia innocence project, georgia justice project inc, gildas club-metro detroit, girl rising, girls in the game nfp, girls inc of greater los angeles, girls incorporated of alameda county, girls play sports inc nfp, girls who code inc, glaad, gleaners community food bank of southeastern michigan, globalgiving foundation, glsen, go for  broke national education center, gods love we deliver, gold country wildlife rescue inc, golden years dog sanctuary, good shepherd hospice  good sports, inc, grand street settlement inc, greater charlotte spca, greater chicago food  depository, greater cleveland food bank, grownyc, guide dogs for the blind, guiding eyes for the blind, inc., habitat for horses inc, habitat for humanity international inc, habitat for humanity of greater los angeles, hamilton college,  hampton  university, heartbeat international inc, heifer project international,  helen keller services, help one child mission to children at risk, helpage usa, helphopelive, inc., helping up mission of  baltimore city, hermosa beach education foundation, hiphopforchange inc., hirshberg foundation for pancreatic cancer research, homeboy industries, homeless health care los angeles, hope for paws, hope of the valley rescue mission, horizon theatre company,  houston area womens center inc, human rights watch inc, humane society international, humane society of the united states, inspire sports camps inc, interfaith food pantry inc, international committee of the red cross,  international fund for  animal welfare inc, international justice mission, international medical corps, international refugee assistance project inc, international rescue committee inc, intersection for the arts, intrepid fallen heroes fund, invisible hands deliver inc, jackie robinson  foundation, jdrf international, jewish family & childrens services , jewish family and community services east bay, jewish family service of los angeles, jewish federation of greater new orleans, jewish federation of greater  philadelphia, jewish united fund of metropolitan chicago, johns hopkins university, joyce theater foundation inc, junior achievement of washington, junior league of los angeles, kids in need foundation, kids in the spotlight inc, la county library foundation,  lake tahoe wildlife care, lakeview pantry, lawyers’ committee for civil rights under law, league of women voters of the city of new york education fund inc, lebanon food pantry inc, leukemia & lymphoma society (lls), library foundation of los angeles, loaves &  fishes family kitchen, los angeles county high school for the arts foundation, los angeles fire department foundation, los angeles lgbt center,  los angeles mission inc, los angeles regional food bank, los angeles s p c a, loveland foundation, lung cancer research foundation, lungevity foundation, lupus research alliance, make-a-wish foundation, manhattan beach education foundation, marc lustgarten  pancreatic cancer foundation, march of dimes inc, marine toys for tots foundation,  marleys mutts dog rescue, martin luther king jr center for non violent social change inc, maryland food bank inc, meals on wheels west,  measure  austin, memorial sloan kettering cancer center, mending kids international, mental health advocacy services inc, mercy ships, metropolitan ministries inc, miami rescue mission inc, michael j fox foundation for parkinson's research, milwaukee rescue mission,  minnesota zoo foundation , minnies food pantry inc, montgomery county humane society inc, motion picture and television fund (mptf), movember foundation, mt pleasant animal shelter inc, muscular dystrophy association, ny police and fire  widows & childrens benefit fund inc, naacp foundation, national alliance on mental illness, national asian pacific center on aging (napca), national audubon society, national black child development institute, national breast cancer foundation, national  forest foundation, national kidney foundation, national multiple sclerosis society,  national park foundation, national parks conservation association, national womens law center, native american connections native american rights fund, nature conservancy, navy seal foundation inc, new city kids, new york cares, next generation scholars, no one left behind, north shore animal league america, north texas food bank, northern illinois  food bank, northwest harvest, northwestern university, nova ukraine, ocean conservancy inc, one school at a time, one tree planted, onepulse foundation, operation gratitude inc, operation kindness of garland,  operation underground railroad inc, opportunity junction, our house foundation, outfest, ovarian cancer research fund alliance, pancreatic cancer action network inc, para los niños,  parkinsons foundation, partnership to end addiction,  pasadena humane society & spca, patient airlift services, paws - progressive animal welfare society, paws of war inc, people assisting the homeless , people for the ethical treatment of animals inc, pflag national, piedmont educational foundation,   plastic oceans foundation,  police athletic league inc, prevent cancer foundation,  project als inc, project angel food, prostate cancer foundation, purple heart service foundation, rainforest trust, random  acts, reading to kids, redondo beach educational foundation, refugee & immigrant transitions, refugee services of texas, rescuing hope, rhode island community food bank association, ronald mcdonald house charities, roof above,  root & rebound,  safe horizon, salvation army national corp, samaritan’s purse san francisco aids foundation, sandy hook promise foundation, save the children federation, save the music foundation, save the redwoods league, sea  shepherd conservation society, seattle academy of arts and sciences, seattle childrens hospital foundation, second harvest food banks, second harvest heartland, sequoia parks conservancy,  share our strength, she should run,  shelter to soldier, shriners hospitals for children, sierra club foundation, smile train, south bay childrens health center, southern poverty law center inc, special olympics, st. jude children’s research hospital, stephen siller tunnel to towers foundation,  summit educational foundation inc, susan g. komen breast cancer foundation, team rubicon, teen feed, the childrens hospital of philadelphia foundation, the chrysalis center, the emma bowen foundation, the giving spirit, the good food institute, the independence  fund inc, the mosaic project,  the united way , the uso, together we rise corporation, totals, toys for kids transgender legal defense and education fund, trevor project inc, ukrainian red cross society,  unicef usa union rescue mission, union station homeless services , united help ukraine, united jewish appeal federation, united states veterans initiative (u.s.vets), up us sports, upworks for good, urban justice  center, us association for un refugee agency, us vet corps resources, uso of metropolitan new york, inc., valley children’s healthcare foundation, veterans watchmaker initiative, vetpaw inc, vietnam veterans memorial fund  inc , village harvest, village school inc, voices   freedom, volunteers of america michigan, water   life global, water.org, wheels of happiness foundation, wildcat sanctuary, wildlife conservation network, wildlife conservation society, women for afghan  women, women for women international, women's refugee commission,  world central kitchen, world food program usa, world wildlife fund, wounded warrior project, ymca of metropolitan dallas, young adult institute, ywca   giv  ing  mo    re introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights community forward giving for good fox forwardgiving across the company people forward sustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendix make camo your causein action fox partnered with u.s.vets for their “make camo your cause”   campaign to #honorusvets. the cause marketing campaign,  launched in november of  , brings visibility to the organization’s mission to further establish camouflage as the official symbol of   veteran support. fox activated widespread support across our   networks and businesses in support of the campaign and the  organization’s goal to end homelessness for those who have served. fox sports featured on-air coverage of the campaign throughout  the week of veterans day, including airing u.s.vets public service announcements across fs  and fs , totaling nearly   minutes of  airtime. fox sports, fs , fs  and fox deportes logos all went camo  for the day. the campaign viewership reached nearly   million. fox news featured coverage of “make camo your cause” during   fox & friends and fox news primetime. our fox anchors showed  off their camo on-air and on their social channels. fox news social  channels were also themed with camo to spread the important   message.   “we were honored to see business units  across fox rally around our make camo your cause to #honorusvets campaign.   together, we can ensure that no veteran who   bravely served our country sleeps on its streets.” - stephen j. peck, president and ceo, u.s.vets, usmc ’  – ‘  introduction about fox  our approach  fiscal year   highlights community forward giving for good fox forwardgiving across the company people forward sustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendix  fox entertainment utilized a times square billboard in new york   city to display the #honorusvets messaging, reaching scores of  people throughout veterans day. talent from fox shows, including trace adkins, mayim bialik, gina torres and rafael l. silva, donned  camo gear, posted stories of personal veteran connections and shared  the campaign link through their social channels. fox also promoted the campaign during primetime programming on veterans day. fox tv stations showed support for u.s.vets at   local stations  around the country. for veterans day, features aired across all digital sites, and each station flipped their logos to the camo design in  recognition. interviews with u.s.vets representatives and clients  aired on kttv in l.a., livenow in vegas, wttg in d.c., kriv in houston and ksaz in phoenix. fox employees also made camo their cause, purchasing exclusive  fox/u.s.vets camo merchandise that was made available in the  fox studio lot store in los angeles and posting to their social  channels, and fox giving double matched employee donations to  u.s.vets throughout the month.    united states veterans initiative fox established and continues to nurture a  strong partnership with the united states veterans initiative (u.s.vets), a national leader in providing housing, employment and mental health services to veterans across the country. through food services, site improvements and supply drives, fox is committed to giving veterans the opportunity to live with dignity and independence. fox forward funded meals for more than    veteran residents in four u.s.vets residential facilities in recognition of memorial day. introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights community forward giving for good fox forwardgiving across the company people forward sustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendix red cross relief efforts fox viewer support $ .  million for   ukraine relief fox viewers answered the call to   action with over $  million in   donations to the fox forward   microsite, providing much needed   resources and relief to communities   in ukraine.$ ,  for   tornado relief  in addition to the $  million   fox corporation contribution, the   fox forward red cross fundraising   microsite received more than $ k   in viewer donations to support the   southern and midwest tornadoes   response and recovery efforts. tornado disaster relief efforts   in december  , a trail of tornadoes in the south and midwest left  many communities devastated. american red cross disaster workers from all over the country helped and continue to assist the people   of kentucky, tennessee, arkansas and missouri, focused on providing  shelter, meals and comfort. fox corporation contributed $  million  to their efforts and double matched employee donations.  over  ,  families received funds to begin to rebuild their lives,  including replacing furniture, securing new housing and purchasing other necessities. across fox networks, stations and platforms, we highlighted the important relief efforts by the red cross, supplemented  by interviews and viewer calls to action to support the cause. ukraine crisis relief efforts  fox donated $  million to the american red cross to provide aid and resources including water, medical supplies, housing support and more to the most vulnerable both within ukraine and for those forced to leave their homes. the company double matched employee   donations to american red cross ukraine relief efforts through fox  giving. fox also featured several ukraine segments with red cross representatives to discuss the humanitarian aid and mental health support being provided to those affected by the crisis in ukraine.american red cross humanitarian efforts in action  “as a forward-thinking   annual disaster giving program member,  fox ensures our   organization is ready   to help people and  communities prepare for the unexpected   and provide comfort   to families at  a moment’s notice.    this past year, fox and its   generous viewers   responded in extraordinary   ways.” - gail mcgovern, president and ceo,   american red crossintroduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights community forward giving for good fox forwardgiving across the company people forward sustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendix fox viewer support   our campaign to support red cross efforts was amplified by   the extraordinary generosity of fox viewers through their donations  to our fox forward fundraising microsite. following calls to action  from fox & friends, multiple fox tv stations, fox sports and   fox entertainment platforms, the microsite received more than  $ ,  in donations to support the response and recovery efforts  surrounding the tornadoes in the south and midwest. the generosity of fox viewers, across all our platforms, shone  through with contributions to the fox red cross ukraine relief effort  microsite surpassing $  million. red cross “giving day”  further attention was brought to the essential work of the red cross through an on-air and social media push during red cross month  “giving day” on march  . fox weather meteorologists recorded awareness messages that ran the week leading up to giving day.   on giving day, in-studio and virtual interviews were featured as well  as a remote segment from a red cross-supported los angeles blood donation center. fox weather meteorologists boosted the program across its platform,  leading to $ ,  in donations from fox viewers, adding to the over - all total of $  million to the campaign.   american red cross fox continues its pledge to pre-invest in national disaster relief through  our american red cross annual disaster giving program (adgp)  partnership. our annual gift supports relief efforts in response to disasters across the nation, providing safe shelter, hot meals, emotional support  and resources to aid in recovery. the adgp funds the red cross response efforts to more than  ,    disasters of all sizes each year across the nation, helping families and  communities become better prepared and more resilient ahead of the next crisis. vital systems and supplies must be in place before disaster strikes, and fox’s dedication and critical investments ensure that the tens of  thousands of red cross workers are fully ready to turn heartbreak into hope. those struggling after a disaster turn to the red cross because they know  they will get the support they need to begin to rebuild their lives. the red cross is dedicated to engaging local communities, evidenced by the fact that  % of red cross workers are volunteers. fox’s participation in the adgp allows volunteers to be fully trained to jump into action to help those struggling in their own neighborhoods.introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights community forward giving for good fox forwardgiving across the company people forward sustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendix empowering students in   our local communities • palms middle school, which  has a new modern media and communications magnet program focused on career and technical education for the communications-based jobs of the  st century, with  a curriculum designed around writing, public speaking, technology and film & video • school for the visual arts and humanities, where high school students focus on career and technical education in either animation or fine art • samuel gompers middle school, which has a steam magnet program offering classes in drama, music, coding, robotics and digital production • hamilton high school, which has a new film program focused on technical education in video production, screenwriting, music technology and broadcast journalism • overland elementary school, which launched a visual arts program for students in fall   • castle heights elementary school, whose art teacher introduces students to the work of famous artists and teaches lessons based on the style of those artists• westwood charter elementary school, whose art instructor teaches oil pastels, watercolor, drawing and other creative arts   on an age-appropriate basis to   each grade • emerson community charter middle school, which launched an arts & media academy that features classes on video production, costume design and scriptwriting • van nuys high school, which has a performing arts magnet program that offers classes in dance, theater, music and filmin the summer of  , fox debuted its “fox for students” program,  a broad and deep investment in local schools across los angeles.   the program provides   local schools with the resources needed   for activities that ignite students’ passion in the arts, creativity and  storytelling. in its first year, the program helped to provide costumes and set  supplies for emerson middle school’s drama program, lcd televisions for palms middle school’s modern media and communications magnet program and performance equipment for  th street elementary school, including microphones, speakers and computers.  in addition to these arts and education opportunities, we recognize  the importance of daily healthy food to enable students to thrive and succeed in and outside of the classroom. fox partnered again with the los angeles regional food bank’s backpack program to provide fresh food all school year long to two schools in the los angeles unified and compton unified school districts. fox supports recreational programs to serve youth across the country,  including students in our fox studio lot neighborhood. through a special grant to cheviot hills pony baseball association, students were able to make a special trip to the baseball hall of fame, and we provided the cheviot hills recreation center summer campers with fox backpacks, cooling towels and water bottles.•  th street elementary school,  which works with the why can’t we make a difference foundation to provide students with classes in drama, choir and visual arts • crenshaw magnet high school, which includes a visual and performing arts pathway with classes in visual arts, dance, music, digital art and media • canfield elementary school, which offers students programs in visual arts, dance and music  fox for studentsin action introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights community forward giving for good fox forwardgiving across the company people forward sustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendix college to congress   for the past three years, fox corporation has  participated in the college to congress (c c) internship program that creates a pathway for economically  disadvantaged students to work in the halls of congress  by providing financial support that helps reduce their living expenses while interning on capitol hill. c c is partnered with more than   congressional offices, building the foundation for a more collaborative and effective government. t. howard foundation diversity-tech   internship program in december of  , fox corporation became the   charter sponsor of the t. howard foundation’s (thf) diversity-tech (train, empower, connect & hire) initiative. the program, an expansion of thf’s successful internship program, offers technology  internships in media-related industries to diverse  and underrepresented college students with stem backgrounds. the fox studio lot will serve as the home of thf’s west coast initiatives. student interns will be selected in february of   and  begin the program in march. in its inaugural year, the  focus will be on the data analytics and cybersecurity  side of the business. fox sports university  fox sports university is a unique program connecting college students with fox sports employees and our league partners to collaborate on projects relevant to  the sports industry and student curriculum.  for over   years, fox sports university has been  bringing the real world into the classroom, allowing students to bring their creative and innovative ideas to life.during the  -  school year, the program partnered with   prestigious universities nationwide engaging over   students. project topics ranged from sustainability awareness with mlb green, csr  campaigns for the fifa world cup qatar  ™,  perspectives on growing nascar’s engagement with gen z and many more. seven fox sports university students received  internships at fox this past year, and two have moved on to full-time roles within the company. united states football league (usfl)  youth clinics  the usfl is committed to investing in the birmingham, alabama, community with an emphasis on youth, through work that supports an active lifestyle, literacy and character building. their clinics focus on strengthening and developing  birmingham-area youth to become optimal team members, on and off the field. the usfl 's youth camps consist of instruction with players and coaches from the birmingham stallions and other usfl teams. students learn the fundamentals of team drills, both offensive and  defense. along with the usfl, fox corporation sponsored several  clinics throughout the season. through these clinics, the usfl reached over   participating youth, enriching the surrounding communities in which the league plays.   introduction about fox  our approach  fiscal year   highlights community forward giving for good fox forwardgiving across the company people forward sustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendix each fox business unit takes pride in its ability to   utilize its platforms, talent and storytelling to impact our  viewers and our communities. fox sports   fox sports harnesses the power of sports to create and advance fighting chances for underserved youth and  our military heroes to play, grow and be inspired through its long-standing community impact program fox sports  supports. youth sports and education   our commitment to elevating access to sports and quality community-based sports programs for all athletes continues as we partner with national   non-profit good sports to provide athletic equipment  to kids in need across the country. throughout the  year, donations of more than $ ,  worth of gear were made. fox sports and good sports helped launch official league play for the miracle league of dubuque in connection to the first-ever mlb at field of dreams game, providing athletes of all abilities the chance to play baseball. in southern california, fox sports works  with non-profit partner angel city sports to provide  adaptive sports programming for athletes living with physical disabilities or visual impairments. inspiring the next generation of sports media  professionals and expanding access to the industry for underrepresented students is central to fox sports’  efforts in the community. together with non-profit  partner sports biz cares, fox sports employees  hosted and participated in virtual educational programs attended by more than   students from over   universities, colleges and high schools across the  country interested in pursuing career pathways in sports  media. in los angeles, local high school students from non-profit partner la  foundation went behind the scenes of fox sports’ nascar race hub live from the coliseum and spoke with on-air personalities and team members about careers in sports television production as part of the inaugural nascar clash at the coliseum  community day. veterans and military   the fox sports portfolio of networks and digital properties amplifies the reach and impact of its   military-focused partner organizations and shares the stories of each, earning more than   million  impressions for their initiatives since july  . fox sports is dedicated to supporting our nation’s  military heroes, their families and the organizations that serve them. in partnership with non-profit purple heart homes, fox sports completed its first two housing solution projects to improve the quality of life  for service-connected disabled veterans living in its  charlotte, north carolina office community.  additionally, fox sports served as the presenting  sponsor of u.s.vets’  th annual steps for vets “storm the beach”  k/ k, which raised over $ ,  to ensure the   at-risk and homeless veterans their long beach  location serves are not alone in their transition out of  homelessness.  giving across the company introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights community forward giving for good fox forwardgiving across the company people forward sustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendix  fox entertainment #tvforall   fox entertainment’s #tvforall digital campaign is a  call to do more and a push for awareness of the impact that different cultures and races have had on american history. through exclusive content, a space is created for  all voices from all communities to be heard and seen.  with over five million impressions across fox tv  handles, each campaign highlights the multidimensional facets and influence from each community in celebration of latinx heritage month, black history month, women’s history month, asian american, native hawaiian and  pacific islander heritage month and pride month. #tvforall shines a light on the need for increased  diversity in the entertainment space, featuring talent from a variety of fox shows, including  - - , the cleaning lady, the resident, fantasy island, i can see your voice and masterchef.  inspiring the next generation of storytellers in addition to the fox writers incubator and the fox   alternative entertainment fastrack initiatives  (described on page  ), which nurture and provide training to writers of all genres of diverse backgrounds and life experiences, fox entertainment inspires the   next generation of storytellers through support of the young storytellers foundation. the program matches employee volunteers with elementary, middle school and high school students to encourage imaginative discovery through creative storytelling. fox entertainment contributed to the los angeles  county high school for the arts foundation (lachsa) during the  -  school year. lachsa provides a fully public arts education in dance, music, theatre, visual arts and cinematic arts for students throughout los angeles. community support   fox partnered with the national domestic workers alliance (ndwa) to host a virtual panel discussion of the cleaning lady storyline which highlights the  experiences of the undocumented domestic worker and how the show encourages much needed conversation around the topic. in lieu of a gift bag item for the emmy™  deadline contenders series giveaway, the cleaning  lady donated to the ndwa.  introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights community forward giving for good fox forwardgiving across the company people forward sustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendix  fox news media  fox news media (fnm) reaches across multiple  platforms to inform its audience and provides opportunities for its loyal viewers to give back to the worthy organizations they are passionate about. through  contributions, awareness and employee volunteerism,  fnm made a wide impact during the year. fox news media  th anniversary week of service   in keeping with the values of service and teamwork,  fnm celebrated its  th anniversary by giving back to local and national organizations through donations and  volunteer activations. fnm contributed $ ,  to four  non-profit partners, which was matched by fox. fnm employees participated in volunteer activities, both in person and virtually, to support foster children, veterans experiencing homelessness, low-income youth, food insecure communities and deployed troops and their families. • together we rise: employees created and decorated ‘birthday boxes’ and ‘safer at home’ kits for kids currently in foster care. together we rise transforms the way children experience foster care through  programs designed to bring joy and make them feel  seen and appreciated. • blankets of hope (boh): fnm staffers worked with boh to pair handwritten notes with hundreds of blankets for veterans experiencing homelessness. a fox & friends appearance by boh founders resulted  in over $ ,  in viewer donations and more than    educators committing to initiate the program in their classrooms. • operation gratitude: fnm volunteers built battalion buddies bears for children of deployed military members, and additional virtual volunteers created paracord bracelets for deployed troops and veterans.  fnm is proud to support operation gratitude’s  commitment to honor the service of our military and first responders and their families by creating opportunities to express gratitude.• police athletic league of nyc (pal): fnm colleagues gathered to build snack packs for children in pal programs in the bronx. employees also joined remotely for a special lunch & learn session from  the pal team and were able to purchase items from  their amazon wishlist. through the on-site and virtual events, over   packs were created for students. fnm has long supported pal’s mission to provide environments for nyc’s youth to play, learn and grow, nurtured by a special relationship with youth development professionals and police officers. • feeding america: through a fox giving employee match campaign, over  ,  meals were donated to food banks through feeding america. • additionally, employee donations to all fnm anniversary week of service non-profit partners were matched by the company, subsequently raising over $ , . save our allies fnm journalist benjamin hall, who was seriously injured while reporting on the ground in ukraine, was evacuated safely by the bravery, compassion and heroism of save our allies, as well as the u.s. military and the ukrainian and polish armed forces. save our allies was established in   in direct  response to the taliban takeover of afghanistan.   the non-profit group operates with a mission to rescue american citizens and other special populations from conflict zones with veterans of the special operations and the intelligence community who are highly skilled   in precision evacuations in hostile environments. in appreciation of their incredible efforts, fox news  media launched a voluntary employee fundraising drive for save our allies with a double match from  fox corporation which raised over $ , . introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights community forward giving for good fox forwardgiving across the company people forward sustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendix fox television stations   at our local fox television stations, home is where the  heart is. each station across the nation plays a vital role in keeping their community connected, informed and supported. wtvt - tampa  fox   continued their impactful fundraising programs benefiting metropolitan ministries whose mission is to support underserved families, children and elderly members of the tampa bay area. the annual “$  for  ” campaign encouraged viewers to donate $ , resulting  in the delivery of  ,  meals and a total of more than  $ ,  in donations. additionally, their back-to-school supply drive raised over $ , , a  % increase from the prior year. ktvu - san francisco  for   years, ktvu has partnered with one warm coat  to promote their mission to provide coats to bay area  community members in need. through the drive, fox   viewers donated more than  ,  coats which were distributed to homeless shelters and community centers.  on “giving tuesday,” ktvu made ucsf benioff  children’s hospitals their primary beneficiary, and  through on-air promos and live mentions during  newscasts throughout the day, $ ,  was raised to provide the highest quality care to all kids, regardless  of the families' ability to pay.kdfw/kdfi - dallas since  , fox’s two dallas-fort worth area stations  have partnered with the dallas mayor’s summer reading program. the program rewards kids for time spent reading and participating in educational activities at  their local public library. in  , over  ,  children  registered for the program, completing  ,  hours of reading and earning  ,  free books.  kdfw and kdfi also supported backpack boosters, an  annual school supply drive in conjunction with kroger and iheartradio. the   record-breaking campaign  raised over $ ,  for independent school districts   in texas, benefiting more than  ,  students. the stations spread awareness through promotional spots and news coverage of the summer campaign. wnyw - new york city  fox   partnered with the tunnel to towers foundation  for their   annual  k run & walk in september,  marking the  th anniversary of the september  th attacks. the fox   team provided awareness with news coverage and a one-hour special highlighting the inspirational story of stephen siller and the legacy he leaves behind through the foundation’s many programs to support first responders and families.   introduction about fox  our approach  fiscal year   highlights community forward giving for good fox forwardgiving across the company people forward sustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendix   hidden heroes  fox forward partnered with the elizabeth dole foundation in support of their “hidden heroes” initiative,  which brings vital attention to the untold stories of   military caregivers and seeks solutions for the tremendous   challenges and long-term needs they face. during the december   holiday season, fox forward  awarded special grants to extraordinary caretakers from seven families across the u.s. during fox tv station on-air interviews about the program, the spotlight was  turned on the caretakers, surprising them with a grant in  recognition of their dedication to supporting our nation’s heroes, often in the shadows and without fanfare.  the program recognizes the needs of caretakers,   helping them avoid burnout, manage stress and take care of their physical and mental health, so they can continue  providing care to their loved ones. fleet week  through continued partnership with the uso and the la fleet week foundation, fox honored thousands of united states navy, united states marine corps and united states coast guard participating in fleet week  celebrations on the east and west coasts.  fleet week returned to los angeles for memorial day  weekend  , and fox welcomed u.s. navy sailors and marines from the uss portland and the uss essex for a tour of the historic fox studio lot, a taping of fox sports’ the herd with colin cowherd and an all-american bbq  lunch with fox employees. fox sports celebrated our nation’s heroes as the  presenting sponsor of the la fleet week dodgeball tournament. contestants from all branches of the military competed against l.a.’s finest, including police, fire and emergency services. the “average marines,” a group of marines assigned to the  th marine expeditionary unit, claimed the inaugural tournament  championship.  fox entertainment joined as a sponsor of the galley   wars surf and turf grill challenge. the competition between navy, marine, coast guard and army teams  was judged by a celebrity panel, including a past masterchef contestant. held at the port of los angeles,  more than  ,  attendees and service members  enjoyed the events during the four-day memorial day weekend.   in new york, fox supported the uso’s fleet week    through activities including care packs for more than  ,  visiting sailors, the parade of ships welcome  breakfast and the rock the fleet concert performance. tunnel to towers  the fox family recognized the  th anniversary of  /  through contributions to several organizations dedicated to helping first responders, injured veterans and the families of fallen first responders, including the tunnel  to towers foundation, a non-profit organization founded  in memory of fallen firefighter stephen siller, who sacrificed himself to save others on september  ,  . support for tunnel to towers is a true fox family   effort. fox corporation, fox news media and fox   sports’ sponsorship of annual events around their    /  commemorations exceeded over $  million.   fox employees participated in the annual  k run/walk   in new york and satellite cities. fox   new york and   several other fox tv stations covered the run and  surrounding events. spotlight: veteran caregivers, military   and first responders introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights community forward giving for good fox forwardgiving across the company people forward sustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendix people  forward our over  ,  employees are the creative, strategic and operational  engine of fox’s success. we recognize and support our colleagues  by promoting inclusion and diversity, offering competitive compensation and benefits, affording workplace flexibility for   work-life balance, providing learning and development opportunities,  and fostering workplace civility and respect. we are committed to freedom of association and the protection of human rights. inclusion and diversity we are committed to diversity from the very top. our board of directors requires that minority and female candidates are presented for consideration with each director vacancy. we believe that the more voices in the room and the more diverse the experiences  of our colleagues, the better fox’s internal culture and external  programming are. our diversity enables us to be more reflective of the audiences we reach and enhances our ability to create news, sports and entertainment programming that serves all viewers across the country. an inclusive and diverse workplace is not merely a strategy or business objective—it is fundamentally woven in the fabric of the company. this commitment begins with our approach to talent  recruitment across all our disciplines and extends to the way we  nurture and advance our colleagues’ careers. the executive vice president of human resources and the vice  president of diversity & inclusion monitor and oversee diversity initiatives and data on an ongoing basis. moreover, we have voluntarily posted on our corporate website our   employment information  report (eeo- ), showing the race, ethnicity and gender of our u.s.  employees. for example, by the end of  , our first/mid-level officials (eeo-  category  . ) and managers were approximately  . % female and  . % non-white. similarly, our employees categorized as professionals (eeo-  category  . ) were  . %  female and  . % non-white. we are proud of our workforce and  our ongoing efforts to further its diversity.   introduction about fox  our approach  fiscal year   highlights  community forward people forward inclusion & diversity compensation & benefits   work-life balance & workplace flexibility  learning & development  fostering workplace civility & respect sustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendix  fox has several talent recruitment initiatives designed  to identify, attract, hire, build and retain promising  talent. we have a centralized recruitment team that ensures our job postings are written and distributed to appeal to candidates broadly and on an equal basis. we  list our job openings internally and externally because  we believe this is one of the best tools to reach the widest and most diverse pool of candidates. we offer paid internships to build a diverse pipeline  of early-career talent and emerging leaders. the fox internship program offers students an exciting  opportunity to gain practical experience, participating  in real-world projects and seminars on the media industry, technology and professional development. this internship program, which runs for  -  weeks three times per year, welcomed over   students in calendar year   and was listed in vault’s   “  best internships” survey. we also partner with the emma bowen foundation, the  t. howard foundation, the international television and radio society, sports biz cares and the entertainment industry college outreach program to provide media internships for promising students. fox has developed and implemented a number  of internal training programs designed to provide outstanding individuals with workforce skills and professional development opportunities. these programs build the pipeline of our next generation of leaders, many of whom are from underrepresented backgrounds. examples include: fox ad sales training (fast):   this rotational program, which hired its first class in early  , aims to attract, develop and retain early career talent. through exposure to various functions within ad sales, fast develops professional skills of promising individuals recruited from outside fox. fox alternative entertainment (fae) fastrack:  this highly selective accelerated producers’ initiative is designed to nurture producers with diverse backgrounds and life experiences and create a pipeline for new behind-the-camera talent on fae series.  launched in  , the program places candidates as  associate producers on production teams across various fae-produced shows to provide valuable exposure to many facets of production. fox news leadership development program:   this program equips diverse, high-potential talent with  the tools needed to build and propel a career with fox.  program pillars are mentorship, access and networking, skill-building and development and exposure to the other fox businesses. fox news media career launch program:   initiated in august  , this program strives to set   up early-career talent for success by providing tools   and resources that empower them to navigate their  own career journey and become well-rounded employees who contribute to the long-term success  of fox news media. fox news media digital rotational program:   launched in june  , this program strives to identify  high potential talent from diverse backgrounds with a passion for the fox news media brand. the goal is to find staff placement for the individuals who complete the one-year rotational program across three key departments for four months each and have proven themselves to be integral members of the fox news  media digital team. fox news media high-octane mentoring program:   under the mentorship of executive leadership team members, mentees who exhibit a track record of consistently high performance and collaborative and inclusive leadership within their teams are provided with opportunities to build their business acumen and leadership competencies. launched in october  , this program aims to engage, retain and prepare high potential talent for continued growth within fox  news media. fox news multimedia reporters training program:  this program places talent from diverse backgrounds in multimedia reporter roles across the country, where they shoot, report, edit and produce their own high- end content across fox news platforms. through  daily guidance and feedback from management, we  challenge and enable talent to continually hone their  journalistic skill. fox sports professional development program:   this program prepares production team leaders with skills for the unique sports production environment, such as communication and influence in the control room  under short deadlines. fox television stations sales training program:   this program was created to develop and mentor the next generation of diverse and motivated sales professionals for fox television stations. trainees participate in both intensive classroom study of all  aspects of the television station advertising sales  business and shadowing of fox television stations  sales account executives. fox writers incubator initiative:   this fox entertainment program, which welcomed its first class in march  , nurtures and trains talented  writers with diverse voices, backgrounds and life  experiences. writers work intensively on their scripts with the support of established writers, executives, directors and producers across all genres (comedy, drama, animation, etc.).  fox also collaborates with an array   of professional organizations that offer the company access to talent at recruiting events and conventions. these organizations include: • adcolor • asian american journalists  association (aaja) • national association of  black journalists (nabj) • national association of  hispanic journalists (nahj) • native american journalists  association (naja) • nlgja: the association of  lgbtq journalists • radio television digital news  association (rtdna)introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights  community forward people forward inclusion & diversity compensation & benefits   work-life balance & workplace flexibility  learning & development  fostering workplace civility & respect sustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendix   fox also facilitates employee resource groups (ergs),  which are formed around shared identity, interests or  pursuits. these ergs advance careers, form a more inclusive workplace community and foster a sense of belonging. fox offers nine employee resource groups: • able -- promotes an inclusive environment and culture for our colleagues with disabilities through advocacy and allyship • ace (asian community exchange) -- serves asian americans at fox by advancing our members, championing our stories and empowering our communities • blk+ -- celebrates our black colleagues and seeks to build community through programming and professional development while standing in solidarity with our allies • hola (hispanic organization for leadership and advancement) -- develops hispanic leaders, enriches fox’s diverse culture and drives positive impact • pride  -- cultivates community among fox’s lgbtq+  colleagues and allies, supports causes important to the lgbtq+ community and fosters a work environment where all colleagues feel  % authentic  and professionally supported • vets  -- is committed to the community of veterans,  current service members, military supporters and  military spouses employed at fox by embracing our four core values – community, appreciation,  connection & education • wit (women in tech) -- attracts, advances and  empowers women technologists and amplifies their impact at fox • women of fox sports -- connects, inspires, informs and gives back to the community, with the goal of furthering women’s collective contributions and advancement within the sports industry • women@fox -- creates the space for developing female leadership at all levels and fosters a culture where all women thriveas a result of these and other efforts, many outside organizations have recognized fox for our deep commitment to inclusion and diversity. for example: • diversitycomm once again recognized fox as a top employer and as a top lgbtq+ friendly company  for   • the company was appointed to the military friendly® employer list again for   and named one of its   top ten employers • fox was named to disability equality index's  “best places to work for disability inclusion” list again for   • black eoe journal, hispanic network magazine, professional woman’s magazine and u.s. veterans magazine have all listed fox as a   top employer finally, we understand that inclusion and diversity   should influence the way we purchase goods and services.   we are a member of the national minority supplier development council and its advertising, entertainment, media and sports industry group, and we invite minority business enterprises to engage with us and be part of our vendor base. our goal is to identify and grow a diverse  supplier community that provides us best-in-class goods  and services. we engage employees, suppliers, partners and stakeholders through education, training, interaction and leadership initiatives that foster an inclusive culture and environment. we also seek to build business opportunities and lasting relationships with companies owned and operated by women, veterans, people with  disabilities and lgbtq+ individuals.introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights  community forward people forward inclusion & diversity compensation & benefits   work-life balance & workplace flexibility  learning & development  fostering workplace civility & respect sustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendix   mental health awareness month as part of our ongoing investment in cultivating the mental health of our employees, fox presented several webinar series and resources  in may to provide the space and tools to learn and apply better mental  health practices. fox sports hosted a mental health speaker series, which included speakers such as fox sports nfl insider jay glazer and #  new york times bestselling author and former monk jay shetty.  fox partnered with the national alliance on mental illness in new york  to mark its  th anniversary by participating in its annual fundraising  event, namiwalks nyc, and its first-ever mental health street festival. fox   provided dedicated promotion and coverage of the event, including an interview with a nami ambassador. asian american, native hawaiian and pacific islander   (aanhpi) heritage month  during the month of may, fox continued to recognize and celebrate  the aanhpi community’s contributions and leadership on and off screen. through the event programming of our asian american employee resource group, ace, our employees put a spotlight on non-profits such as the south asian mental health initiative & network and aapi youth rising, as well as asian-owned businesses. across our businesses, fox showcased the tremendous contributions  made by notable influencers in the asian community. through fox news media’s “america together” series, fox business correspondent susan li featured prominent figures such as maj. gen. viet xuan luong, the first vietnamese-born u.s. army general, and kjell lindgren, a taiwanese american astronaut.  fox entertainment creates content representing the aanhpi  community in programs such as the new hit series the cleaning lady, which tells the story of thony, played by élodie yung, and the nuanced life of undocumented immigrants.fox celebrates diversity and fosters inclusion   black history month at fox, we celebrate the continuous achievements of the black community every day, and especially during the month of february. this year, our company focused programming for the month on the  theme “black health and wellness,” providing opportunities for  holistic healing and breaking the stigma around seeking treatment and support. our employee resource group blk+ devoted this month to presenting a series of workshops entitled “grow with blk+: black futures month,” which included strategies and tools for development in the areas of network, finance, mental health and career. fox now  created a custom editorial collection featuring episodes  and short form content highlighting black talent and the contributions  they’ve made to entertainment. a dedicated newsletter featuring this content and fox soul initiatives was sent to  .  million subscribers.  women’s history month  to celebrate women’s history month, fox curated a series of  activations aimed at engaging and informing employees. our ergs  led the way with several virtual programs including a collaboration from fox hola and fox women in tech on a special edition of “latino leaders: speakers series” focused on the triumphs and challenges  of being a latina leader in the technology sector. on international women’s day, fox’s w omen@ erg presented a  fireside chat with fox news media ceo suzanne scott, hosted by fox  news media anchor dana perino. ms. scott shared her experiences as fox’s first female ceo, as well as her thoughts on mentorship, balancing life and career aspirations and the importance of inclusive leadership. fox now  created editorial collections featuring episodes and short  form content highlighting women in front of and behind the cameras of  fox programming. throughout the month, fox giving double matched employee  donations to she should run, girls who code, boundless brilliance, black girls code and downtown women’s center of los angeles.  introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights  community forward people forward inclusion & diversity compensation & benefits   work-life balance & workplace flexibility  learning & development  fostering workplace civility & respect sustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendix pride month  fox encouraged employees to “show us your #foxpride,” kicking off the month with a pride screening room, showcasing the multi-dimensional   and diverse lgbtq+ voices represented in our  programming, including shows like  - - : lone star,  call me kat and bob’s burgers. through the employee assistance program and inclusion  team, fox offered workshops and webinars to foster more engaged and dynamic allies for our lgbtq+  communities, working with organizations like straight  for equality, a pflag national program. fox partnered with the los angeles lgbt center and  ali forney center to amplify their youth and education programs through employee volunteer activations and awareness programs. for the second year, fox is  providing uniforms for participants in the los angeles  lgbt center’s culinary program. hispanic heritage month  fox celebrated hispanic heritage month with a focus on community, beginning with greater los angeles, where many fox employees live and work, by creating  an employee donation matching campaign supporting  the non-profit para los niños. the los angeles-based organization provides a safe and nurturing environment for children and families facing challenges. fox employees also designated september   “amigos  day” in celebration of the premiere of the tubi latinx film  domino. national veterans and military families month  fox celebrated our fox veterans, service members and their caregivers all month long with a variety of engaging and educational events and fundraising campaigns.   the month kicked off with an exclusive fox vets  conversation with an arlington national cemetery historian in recognition of veterans day and the centennial commemoration of the tomb of the unknown soldier. the session highlighted the history and legacy behind the sacred final resting place for unidentified service members and importance of honoring those   who have served our nation and providing a comforting  space for families to remember their loved ones. paws of war presented a virtual tour of their new york  location to fox employees, giving an inside look at their program that trains and places shelter and support dogs with u.s. military veterans that suffer from the emotional  and physical effects of war. the life-changing support   they provide extends to first responders and troops serving overseas.  building on an aim to inform employees about the  veteran experience, fox vets also hosted a panel with veterans in media & entertainment, highlighting the  importance of creating career paths for the brave service  members who have served our country.  be included education series  maintaining an inclusive work environment where employees can thrive is one of our top priorities at fox. to that end, fox developed and launched be included,  a toolkit-building series of learning modules and open  forum discussions to enable employees to create deeper workplace connections and support colleagues in cultivating an inclusive workplace.    introduction about fox  our approach  fiscal year   highlights  community forward people forward inclusion & diversity compensation & benefits   work-life balance & workplace flexibility  learning & development  fostering workplace civility & respect sustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendix  we are proud to invest in our people through competitive  pay and comprehensive benefits designed to attract, motivate and retain our talent. fox operates with an ownership mentality which is  intended to encourage our entrepreneurial spirit and collegial approach, providing our employees with an environment where they can take creative risks and fulfill their own professional goals. providing equal pay for equal work, without regard to race, gender or other protected characteristics, is an imperative at fox.  we link our more senior employees’ pay to corporate  performance through discretionary annual incentive compensation awards. we also provide a broad array of generous benefits that  support the health, wellness and financial stability of our employees and their families. full-time employees  are eligible for medical insurance through a choice of  several plans. employees may enroll family members, including same- and opposite-sex domestic partners, in this coverage. freelance employees who work a minimum number of hours are also eligible for a medical plan. many employees enjoy the convenience of covered telemedicine visits. in addition, we provide  vision and dental insurance, which includes coverage  for adult orthodontic care. our coverage is generous, with employee contributions and costs more favorable than national averages, according to a   mercer llc survey. in addition, eligible employees may participate   in flexible spending accounts, health savings accounts and qualified transportation expense accounts.    we also provide employees with a health advocate service with experts who support employees and their eligible family members in navigating a wide range of    health and insurance-related issues. in addition, we have onsite fitness centers in our new york and los angeles worksites. to provide additional support during the pandemic, we  paid full-time employees’ medical insurance premiums from march   through december  . additional benefits that fox provides to full-time  employees include: • paid company holidays • paid floating holidays • paid vacation • paid sick and safe time • life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment insurance, and business travel accident insurance • full salary replacement for up to   weeks of short-term disability • basic long-term disability insurance • tuition reimbursement • charitable gift matching • an employee assistance program, including onsite counseling in new york and los angeles, as well as smoking cessation and weight management programs • cybersecurity and malware protection for personal devices • our  (k) fox savings plan provides employees  with a company contribution, and it offers a company match, roth and post-tax contribution options,  catch-up contributions and a company match true-up  feature       we believe offering our employees the tools necessary for a healthy work-life balance empowers them to thrive  in our modern workforce. to that end, fox allows eligible  individuals the opportunity to work on a partially remote (i.e., “hybrid”) or fully remote basis in appropriate circumstances. we support these working arrangements by deploying online collaboration tools, offering e-learning courses on effective remote work, providing reasonable office supplies and reimbursing business  expenses. the company also reimburses employees who work  on a fully remote basis with a monthly stipend for business expenses (including mobile or other devices, internet and electricity). where appropriate, we provide technology and mobile communication devices, tailored  to employee duties.  our parental leave policy allows eligible new parents  to bond with their children for a substantial period with full pay, and our workplaces have lactation rooms for our new mothers. we provide onsite subsidized childcare to full-time employees at the los angeles  fox child care center. in addition, we offer backup  child, adult and elder care benefits to help full-time employees with back-to-school transitions and caregiving support while managing remote work and virtual learning. our coverage includes extra backup care to use during a child’s first year to assist with a parent’s return to work. for calendar years   and   , we doubled the number of days that employees  may use the backup care service from   to   days per year, and we also allow employees to use their backup care benefits for virtual tutoring.compensation and benefits work-life balance   and workplace flexibility introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights  community forward people forward inclusion & diversity compensation & benefits   work-life balance & workplace flexibility  learning & development  fostering workplace civility & respect sustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendix  learning and development  our learning and development programs help employees reach their  full potential in a rapidly changing world. we create opportunities for our leaders to grow and develop as managers, to share information about all parts of the business and to increase individual and team  effectiveness. each business unit trains employees on skills and  topics specific to its business needs. in addition, the centralized fox learning & development team provides training across the company on a wide variety of topics and skills. in cy , the learning & development team held over   training events for over  ,  attendees. our approach to learning and development includes: • management and leadership development. fox offers programs to prepare employees for critical manager roles. programs were originally developed for in-person delivery but have been converted to virtual and hybrid models to help leaders continue to develop  regardless of where they are located. examples include:  ◦premiere management development program: this leadership  development experience is designed to help new managers develop as frontline leaders. in  ,   fox leaders completed the program.  ◦true north leadership development experience: this leadership program is targeted toward more senior leaders and empowers executives to grow as leaders, strategists and visionaries for their team. in  ,   fox leaders completed the program.  ◦harvard managementor certificate program: this program develops skills and competencies for leading others and the business. in  ,   fox leaders completed the program. introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights  community forward people forward inclusion & diversity compensation & benefits   work-life balance & workplace flexibility  learning & development  fostering workplace civility & respect sustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendix   • e-learning. we offer online, on-demand training  courses to fox employees, including:  ◦linkedin learning: library of thousands of video courses covering everything from  d animation to microsoft office suite. in  ,  ,  users logged in to view  ,  hours of educational content  across several thousand courses.  ◦harvard managementor: expert advice and content  from world-renowned business leaders available to fox employees to build business and leadership skills. during  , approximately  ,  newly  registered users made more than  ,  visits to the  platform.  ◦learning paths: curated lists of online courses available to help fox employees pursue specific development goals. • live webinars. we connect employees with subject matter experts to build employee skills and awareness. • navigating the new world of work. fox developed and delivered a suite of workshops, toolkits and other resources to equip employees with the skills required to be productive and successful while navigating the  new way of working, including hybrid work schedules,  leading remote teams, etc. • custom engagements. fox learning & development works with specific business units and teams to create bespoke learning and team development offerings based on specific needs. • assessments. fox offers assessment tools (e.g., disc, birkman, mbti,   leadership assessments) to help employees develop greater self-awareness and gain insight into their performance and decision- making processes. • mentormatch. fox pairs employees and senior  leaders across the organization to build meaningful professional relationships. in  , close to   mentees were paired with more than   volunteer  mentors in this six-month program. • performance assessments. all managers are  encouraged to perform annual performance reviews with employees, with an eye toward career development, progression, retention and succession  planning. • within fox news media and fox television  stations, we deliver specialized training on the first amendment, defamation, privacy, infringement and other newsgathering and reporting topics to  educate newsroom and creative employees on these  principles and provide advice on best practices.introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights  community forward people forward inclusion & diversity compensation & benefits   work-life balance & workplace flexibility  learning & development  fostering workplace civility & respect sustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendix fox is committed to equal employment opportunities  for all employees and applicants for employment.  we comply with and exceed the international labour organization’s (ilo) conventions for eliminating discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. our commitment to creating and maintaining an  environment free of discrimination and harassment begins at the highest leadership level of the company and is embedded throughout our policies and practices. the fox standards of business conduct and the preventing harassment, discrimination and retaliation  policy, which are posted on our website, lay out our  framework for addressing complaints and taking remedial measures as needed. our standards of business conduct expressly state that  fox endeavors to ensure that the workplace “is free of bullying and harassment, whether the harassment  is sexual in nature, or is based on any characteristic  protected by applicable law.” it makes clear that it is our policy to “investigate promptly and thoroughly any complaint of discrimination or harassment and to take remedial measures if fox determines that there has been a violation of fox’s policy against such conduct.” we are also committed to maintaining a workplace that  treats all employees with dignity and respect, and is free from all forms of harassment, discrimination and retaliation. our preventing harassment, discrimination and retaliation policy protects individuals on the basis of a person’s actual or perceived race, religious creed, color, national origin, ancestry, citizenship, age, physical  disability, mental disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, family status, caregiver  status, sex (including pregnancy status, childbirth, breastfeeding, and related medical conditions), gender, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, sexual and reproductive health decisions, reproductive  health decision-making, hair texture or hairstyles,  military or veteran status, political affiliation, arrest or conviction record, union membership, unemployment status, credit history, status as a victim of domestic violence, stalking or sexual offenses, or any other legally protected characteristic. any employee or applicant who believes they have  experienced or witnessed harassment, discrimination or retaliation, including as a bystander, must immediately report it to a manager in the company’s human resources department or to one of several alternative reporting channels, including the confidential, third-party managed alertline, which allows for anonymous  reporting of concerns. members of management who  learn of harassing, discriminatory or retaliatory conduct from any source are required to report it immediately. reported concerns are investigated, and if fox  determines that a violation of this policy has occurred, we take appropriate remedial action. these reports  and investigations are evaluated by the most senior  members of fox’s management team. the chief legal and policy officer must approve any settlement related to a violation of the fox standards of business conduct as well as claims related to sexual harassment or other forms of discrimination. further, the audit committee of the board of directors is informed of all matters that  require the chief legal and policy officer’s approval.the board has also adopted a clawback policy, whereby  the compensation committee has sole discretion to require reimbursement of all or any portion of any performance-based compensation or discretionary bonus paid to any executive for the period when the  executive engaged in harassment, discrimination and/or  retaliation, including the failure to respond to allegations or complaints of such behaviors. all new hires must complete training on the preventing harassment, discrimination and retaliation policy, as well as compliance and business ethics, and existing employees must complete the training periodically. freedom of association  fox has always been and will continue to be unequivocally committed to our employees and their right to freely associate with any third party. indeed, our preventing harassment, discrimination and retaliation policy forbids discrimination on the basis of political  affiliation or union membership. we firmly adhere to the  national labor relations act (nlra). the nlra and  the subsequent taft-hartley amendments protect rights of employees and employers in the private sector.  the foundation of the nlra includes the employees’ right to participate in protected, concerted activities,  to discuss working conditions openly and to choose to   be or not be associated and/or represented by a   third-party representative without fear of discrimination or retaliation. across fox entertainment, fox sports, fox television stations and the fox studio lot,  we are a party to approximately   separate collective bargaining agreements that cover thousands of staff  and freelance employees.  fostering workplace civility  and respect introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights  community forward people forward inclusion & diversity compensation & benefits   work-life balance & workplace flexibility  learning & development  fostering workplace civility & respect sustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendix commitment to diverse expression   the core values of our business—a free press, free  speech and free expression—reflect our commitment to our audiences’ right to know, be informed and participate  in the marketplace of ideas. we empower our news,  sports and entertainment teams to develop content that speaks to the various cultural intersections within our diverse audiences. given the variety of communities we serve, there may  be content on our platforms that some members of  our audiences disagree with or feel is not reflective of  their values. we also understand and respect that some employees may not agree with certain content they see, contribute to or are asked to develop.  we ask each of our employees to join us in upholding  these core values, as well as supporting the independent  editorial judgments of our teams, as we work together to  deliver the highest quality content to our viewers.protecting human rights fox is committed to operating in a manner that respects, protects and promotes human rights worldwide. this commitment includes respecting the dignity and worth  of all individuals, encouraging all individuals to reach  their full potential, encouraging the initiative of each employee and providing equal employment opportunity to all employees. these key principles are embodied in fox’s human rights statement. taken collectively, fox’s workplace policies and practices—including nondiscrimination, prohibitions against forced and child  labor, freedom of association and the right to engage   in collective bargaining—are aligned with the principles of the ilo's declaration on fundamental principles and rights at work and the un universal declaration of human rights.   “it’s vital that we as leaders recognize   the employees in a meaningful way,    which truly spotlights their amazing  contributions to the company as   well as their communities at large.” - suzanne scott, ceo, fox news mediafox news media “spotlight awards”  the fox news media spotlight awards is a peer-to-peer program  established to recognize extraordinary employees who go above and beyond, inside and outside the workplace. now an annual tradition, this year marked the first formal event to honor recipients of the spotlight awards. the   spotlight awards were held in memory of late cameraman and  editor pierre zakrzewski. pierre was named an unsung hero only a few months before he was tragically killed in march when his vehicle was struck by incoming fire outside kyiv while covering russia’s invasion of ukraine. zakrzewski, nominated by multiple employees for his outstanding coverage of conflict zones, was a much-loved forward thinker with an impressive knowledge of foreign territories and a keen ability for problem solving.  spotlight awards recipients included employees from across fox news  media businesses, from executive producers to production assistants, who were nominated by their peers eager to celebrate and honor their teammates. awards were given in six categories: community service, rising stars, unsung heroes, innovator of the year, inclusion ambassador of the year and impact award.introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights  community forward people forward inclusion & diversity compensation & benefits   work-life balance & workplace flexibility  learning & development  fostering workplace civility & respect sustainably forward policy forward data forwardsasb appendix we are committed to operating efficiently and reducing  environmental risks associated with our operations across all our businesses. based on our operating footprint, we have identified  the following priority areas for environmental risk management: • building and production management – we own and lease various properties in the u.s. (including the fox studio lot in los angeles) that use energy and water and generate related greenhouse gas emissions and  waste. • business continuity – we believe our main climate risk  is related to business continuity in the event of more extreme weather events. • supply chain – we require our suppliers to manage relevant environmental risks. we have taken specific action as part of our strategy to  mitigate environmental risks, including those related to  climate change: • developed and implemented a comprehensive environmental, health and safety (ehs) program. • tracked energy and greenhouse gas emissions data to reduce consumption. • invested in resource efficiency and clean energy initiatives. • developed a comprehensive business continuity plan. • developed and implemented a supplier management policy.as part of our ongoing efforts to identify and evaluate steps that have a positive impact and advance our strategy to mitigate environmental risks, we have formalized a number of environmental, health and safety initiatives identified in  . during fy , we: • completed our second carbon footprint study, which  has helped identify trends, hot spots and feasible reduction targets to set. • provided additional transparency into our activities and best practice certifications. we engaged a consultant to perform an iso   gap analysis and have begun implementation of our environmental  management system. • focused on additional solutions to reduce waste  from our fox studio lot food outlets, such as making disposable items available only upon request and eliminating individual condiment packets.  sustainably  forward introduction about fox  our approach  fiscal year   highlights  community forward  people forward sustainably forward environmental employee engagement  ehs program resource efficiency & emissions industry collaboration &   environmental initiatives  supply chain management policy forward data forwardsasb appendix environmental employee engagement one tree planted  race for reforestation and fox weather collaboration for a third consecutive year, fox partnered with one tree planted to support their mission to restore forests and create habitats  for biodiversity, making it simple for our employees to help the  environment through tree planting. to kick off earth month, fox hosted an employee webinar with   the chief environmental evangelist, president and founder of one   tree planted, matt hill. fox employees learned about one tree   planted’s mission and how they are working to make an impact   on the environment. through fox’s virtual race for reforestation, employees recorded  close to  ,  miles during the month of april  . for each race mile, one tree was planted, helping us plant nearly  ,  trees. additionally, fox supported two community planting events during earth month, bringing our total number of trees planted to  , . fox weather also teamed with one tree planted during earth month  to replant trees in mayfield, kentucky, after a devastating tornado tore through the town in december of  . the fox weather team returned to mayfield several times throughout the year to support the community as the town continues to rebuild.  environmental, health and safety   (ehs) program  environmental management at fox is guided by our enterprise-wide  ehs policy and ehs management system. the ultimate responsibility and authority for establishing and   maintaining effective ehs programs rests with our executive chair  and chief executive officer. as stated in this policy, the responsibilities include the following: • issue the organization’s ehs policy, setting the example for  fox’s culture • assume overall responsibility for implementing the ehs policy  at all fox facilities • assess information provided during periodic ehs management  reviews, and direct actions to continually improve the ehs  management program and reduce risk in the workplace the day-to-day management of environmental issues is overseen by  our president of operations and distribution and implemented by our  dedicated environmental, health and safety team. additionally, under ehs, the fox global security team oversees the  company’s security and emergency response efforts. the team  proactively monitors, reports and responds to potential and actual  threats to people, physical assets and property, as well as productions  and events, using a number of tools including advanced technology, active training programs, risk assessment and management processes.introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights  community forward   people forward sustainably forward environmental employee engagement  ehs program resource efficiency & emissions industry collaboration &   environmental initiatives  supply chain management policy forward data forwardsasb appendix   resource efficiency and emissions our ehs team tracks the energy and fuel used in the course of   our business, develops new methods to improve energy efficiency  and creates campaigns to engage employees, audiences,  vendors and industry partners on environmental issues.   ongoing initiatives to reduce energy consumption and related   greenhouse gas emissions include: • implementing environmental and energy management (eem)  software to manage energy and ghg emissions across the  company’s portfolio of facilities • constructing new buildings to leed certified standards • installing high-efficiency led lights on production stages • adding occupancy/motion switches in common areas and  selected offices • replacing older hvac systems with more efficient units • purchasing fuel efficient vehicles for news teams • offering and managing commuter programs, including a  qualified transportation expense benefit that encourages  employees to commute via mass transitintroduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights  community forward   people forward sustainably forward environmental employee engagement  ehs program resource efficiency & emissions industry collaboration &   environmental initiatives  supply chain management policy forward data forwardsasb appendix   co e emissions avoided in fy  with clean energy sources   metric tonsin addition to reducing overall energy consumption, we are pursuing cleaner sources  for the energy we do use to reduce carbon emissions. current eﬀorts include:reduce carbon  emissionspursue clean  energyresponsibly dispose of waste utilization of alternative fuel and power on remote broadcasts to reduce dependenceon diesel generators migration of equipment to rechargeable batteriesinvestments in solar power generation capacity  chargers with   charging ports available for employee and visitor use at the fox studio lottransition to sustainable aviation fuel (saf) for corporate jetsfox news media and fox tv stations ﬁeld crews utilize solar-powered generators for daily and breaking news coverage onsite solar natural gas fuel cell    ,     fox studio lot ktvu / kicu television station location energy source consumption (mwh) emissions avoided (mtco e)our computerized  irrigation system has also  helped us decrease our water usage by  %. water saved on irrigation  .  mwater conservation pursuing clean energyfy  energy use and carbon emissions waste management gallons/yearin addition to smart water dispensers, the fox  studio lot has replaced more than  ,  square feet of lawn with artiﬁcial turf. water  saved on turf  ,  gallons/yearsustainably forward our commitment to environmentally  friendly practices across all operationsour carbon footprint includes: energy  consumptionfuel  consumptionrefrigerant  usagebusiness air  travelfox is making progress on eﬀectively and  sustainably managing or recycling the waste produced at all locations.  our largest location for  solid waste is the fox studio lot. we have implemented several waste management initiatives, helping to achieve our cy   diversion rate of  %. donations of unserved  prepared food:  .  tons food waste composted:   tons yard waste composted:   tons assortment of lumber, clothing, office suppliesand furniture donated:  .  tons plastic bottles savedwith bevi water dispensers:  ,  bottlesfox has created environmental initiatives to:  ,  metric tons ,   , fy  fy emissions by fiscal year (metric tons of co e) reduced by  ,   ,   megawatt hours gallons kilograms passenger miles metric tons co e metric tons co e metric tons co e metric tons co e , ,   ,     , , energy use and carbon emissions by consumption type due to rounding, emission sources may not reﬂect totals.  ,  metric tons co escope   indirect emissions from  the purchase of electricity  ,  metric tonsscope   direct emissions from fuel and energy consumption building energy use ( , )fuel consumption ( , ) refrigerant use ( ) ,  metric tons partial  scope   other indirect emissions  from business air travel  ,  metric tons % diversion  rate fox will continue to build on these clean energy eﬀorts and look for further carbon reduction opportunities by: developing tools to track projects that reduce our environmental impact expanding organic waste  infrastructure at the fox studio lot developing cloud-based solutions to  manage environmental data conducting energy audits and  life-cycle assessments evaluating additional scope    categories to include in our inventoryintroduction about fox  our approach  fiscal year   highlights  community forward  people forward sustainably forward environmental employee engagement  ehs program resource efficiency & emissions industry collaboration &   environmental initiatives  supply chain management policy forward data forwardsasb appendix environmental media association  fox is on the board of the environmental media  association (ema), a charitable organization composed  of a diverse subsection of entertainment industry   influencers, business entrepreneurs and green icons   dedicated to the mission of promoting environmental progress. initiatives include the ema school garden  program providing nationwide education for children  on the value of organic/sustainable farming and healthy eating. sustainable production alliance  fox is a member of the sustainable production alliance (spa), a collaboration among the major studios housed under the producers guild of america (pga) as part  of the pga green program. the goal of the alliance is to find tools and solutions to minimize the environmental impact of the entertainment industry, as well as provide  leadership in sustainability that all stakeholders in   the industry can follow. other members include sony, nbcuniversal, disney, warner bros. discovery, netflix, amazon studios, amblin partners, paramount global, participant media and hasbro. albert  fox assisted with the development of a voluntary   studio sustainability standard in partnership with albert,   a uk-based organization that supports the global film  and tv industry to reduce the environmental impacts  of production and to create content that supports a vision for a sustainable future. the standard will allow studios to focus and pinpoint key areas within their facility   where they can make improvements to reduce their   environmental impact over six key areas: climate,  circularity, nature, people, management and data.green sports alliance sustainability assessments this year, fox collaborated with the green sports  alliance (gsa) to better understand our impacts   on remote productions through comprehensive   sustainability assessments. our assessments took  place at two nascar productions in phoenix and  kansas city and gave insight into current impacts,  gaps and opportunities through material waste,  energy, emissions and employee engagement.  as fox sports continues to broadcast elite sports   productions across the world, it is vital to understand  baseline environmental performance within its  control of influence and develop an action plan that  will increase operating efficiencies, grow brand value, mitigate risk and engage internal and external  stakeholders. we will continue to explore and engage  our remote productions to position our teams as a   leader in sports broadcasting and across the green   sports movement. environmental efforts with mlb green  this mlb season, fox engaged with mlb green on  various environmental initiatives at several events  including the all-star game, field of dreams,   postseason playoffs and the world series. efforts   included distributing reusable aluminum path  water bottles, setting up water refill stations,  donating leftover food, utilizing recycle bins and  purchasing offsets. we look forward to continuing  our relationship with mlb green into the next mlb  season and postseason.   industry collaboration   and environmental initiatives  formation of fox sports carbon council  this year, fox has formed an employee group  within fox sports known as the carbon council.  this group meets monthly and consists of dedicated   employees with an interest in sustainability. the   purpose of the council is to share ideas and introduce   environmental solutions.  cheviot hills tree project  in partnership with the la conservation corps and the cheviot hills homeowners' association, fox has  committed to tree planting projects to enhance the  parkways of residential streets in cheviot hills, our fox studio lot neighbor. the la conservation corps is an environmentally  focused youth development non-profit offering  paid work experience on green community projects  that increase shade and reduce ac usage across   los angeles. supply chain management as confirmed in our supplier management policy, doing business with fox, we require our suppliers  to have a documented environmental policy  that includes a commitment to comply with relevant   environmental laws and regulations and work toward   continual improvement and pollution prevention. we have also developed policies and guidelines   for sourcing goods and materials, including plywood,   durable goods, computer equipment and service ware.introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights  community forward   people forward sustainably forward environmental employee engagement  ehs program resource efficiency & emissions industry collaboration &   environmental initiatives  supply chain management policy forward data forwardsasb appendix policy  forward our audiences expect great content from brands they can trust and  companies they can believe in. this requires us to be principled,  transparent, respectful and fair to each other and to our business  partners, customers and other stakeholders. we are proud of the way  we conduct our business and the ethical principles we follow. our policies we insist that everyone working for and with fox will always act with  integrity. that standard is set forth in the comprehensive policies and codes that govern our ethical conduct and responsible behavior. • standards of business conduct outlines our principles regarding fair, ethical and honest business dealings, full and fair disclosure, and compliance with applicable laws, and confirms the expected standard of behavior governing all fox employees and businesses.  • statement of corporate governance sets forth the company’s   corporate governance guidelines and practices, and ensures the company is governed in a manner that serves the interests of our shareholders, colleagues and other stakeholders. • global anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy confirms our  commitment to never engage in, tolerate or condone bribery,  corruption or similar conduct. this policy applies globally to every director, officer and employee of fox and its majority-owned   subsidiaries and divisions, as well as to third parties acting on   behalf of fox and its subsidiaries. • political activities policy establishes standards for employees to ensure compliance with gift, lobbying and political contribution laws,   and any additional, more restrictive requirements required by fox.  introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights  community forward   people forward sustainably forward policy forward  our policies ethics & compliance dynamic risk assessment s data forward sasb appendix oversight   the audit committee of the board of directors has responsibility   for the content and operation of fox’s business ethics and  compliance program, including anti-bribery and corruption programs  as well as any legal or regulatory matter that could have signi ficant  impact on fox’s financial statements. the chief ethics and compliance   officer reports to senior management and to the audit committee about existing compliance programs and proposed new initiatives.  the company has adopted several operational compliance policies  and programs, including an anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy,  an insider trading and confidentiality policy, a political activities  policy, and a global sanctions, anti-boycott and import/export policy. fox’s chief ethics and compliance officer leads the company’s   ethics and compliance program and assists the board of directors in  fulfilling its oversight duties concerning compliance with applicable  laws, regulations and accounting standards, and the dissemination   of true and accurate information. on behalf of senior management,  the chief ethics and compliance officer ensures processes are fully embedded in the business. the chief ethics and compliance officer works with liaisons in each  business unit to coordinate compliance policies and controls and   related ongoing risk assessments. dynamic risk assessments we undertake various risk assessments as part of our efforts to   ensure compliance with our standards of business conduct and  other compliance policies. these include: • all compliance-sensitive vendors are identified and escalated to the chief ethics and compliance officer for risk assessment and review before being approved. we utilize both subjective assessments and screening of all vendors embedded in the intake process for our  accounts payable/vendor management system.• through periodic compliance risk assessments, fox identifies   and assesses operations that present the greatest compliance risk and prioritizes resources to address those risk areas. • financial transactions involving onboarding of government-related   vendors must be reviewed and approved by, among others, the chief ethics and compliance officer. • the fox corporate audit group periodically reviews the  completeness and reliability of this practice. in addition, business units that conduct operations in jurisdictions with known levels  of perceived corruption, or in other situations where the potential  for corruption may present itself, meet prospectively with our   compliance team to assess potential risks and formulate risk  reduction and remediation strategies. third parties we require that consultants, agents and other third parties acting on behalf of fox adhere to the principles contained in our anti-bribery  and anti-corruption policy. we ensure that all payments to third   parties are recorded accurately and documented appropriately. training  all fox employees must read our standards of business conduct  and global anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy and acknowledge that they have done so. there is also periodic training about our  standards of business conduct. all new employees are required to  complete an online training module focused on anti-bribery and   anti-corruption as part of the onboarding process, and existing  employees are also required to complete this training periodically.  ethics and compliance program oversight introduction about fox  our approach fiscal year   highlights  community forward   people forward sustainably forward policy forward  our policies ethics & compliance dynamic risk assessments data forward sasb appendix   reporting concerns   the standards of business conduct and employee  handbook both include information about how ethics concerns can be raised. employees can approach a   manager in human resources or an attorney in the   legal department, in any fox business unit. the chief ethics and compliance officer and designated  compliance or legal liaison in each respective business unit are also available to serve as additional resources. any stakeholder (including employees, suppliers,   customers and other third parties) can also use fox’s independently managed alertline. alertline supports anonymous reporting of concerns either through a  dedicated, domestic/international toll-free telephone number available   hours a day,   days a year, or through a secure website. translation services are available through alertline.  reports are treated confidentially. alertline (both online and telephonic) is maintained by a third-party provider.  the system generates an auditable log of all concerns that are received through that system. a summary of  the complaint is distributed by the system to senior  members of the audit, legal and hr teams, as well as  the chief ethics and compliance officer, who decide what further action may be necessary. on a quarterly basis, the senior vice president of   corporate audit reports on whistleblower complaints  to fox senior management and to the audit committee  of the board of directors. the chief ethics and compliance officer also plays a role  in the resolution of complaints, where warranted.  in addition, there may be certain circumstances when  a colleague or anyone with an ethics or compliance  concern believes that they cannot communicate that  concern through regular channels. in such a situation, that person may communicate directly with the lead  independent director of fox’s board, by addressing a letter to the attention of lead independent director,  fox corporation,   avenue of the americas, new  york, ny  . integrity in sports betting  fox sports is synonymous with the best live sports events in the country. the company also operates a licensed sports-betting marketing affiliate site and has other relationships with and involving the licensed u.s.  sports-betting industry. for all those reasons, ensuring  the integrity of sporting events and wagering, and  avoiding even the appearance of impropriety, are critical.   at all times, gaming and broadcast integrity are at the forefront. fox is committed to expanding sports fans’ experience responsibly and ethically. at fox, we never exploit our positions for personal   gain in gaming, broadcasting, or otherwise.  our standards of business conduct demonstrate our  fidelity to our focus on acting ethically and refraining from self-dealing. • as one of the world’s leading sports broadcasters, fox personnel may learn information about  sporting events and athletes before it becomes known to the public. we do not share non-public   information except as part of our journalistic   responsibilities. we never use it for personal gain.  for example, members of the production team  on fox’s broadcast of an nfl football game might learn before the game begins that one team’s starting quarterback suffered a serious injury while warming up—information not yet known to the general public.  any fox personnel learning of this information would  be prohibited from betting on the game and would also be prohibited from sharing the information with friends, family members or acquaintances before it becomes known to the general public. similarly, if the injured football player was a member of the usfl, that player’s teammates would be barred from  sharing the information with third parties.  • fox personnel may not wager with or through a fox-controlled or affiliated sportsbook or marketing affiliate. fox currently does not own majority interest in or control any sportsbook; however, fox’s outkick  media llc, for example, is a licensed sports-betting  marketing affiliate. fox personnel may not open  any account or place any wager through outkick or any other marketing affiliate or sportsbook in  which fox may acquire a majority interest or control in the future. • not only are fox employees required to refrain  from improperly benefiting from their position or  access, they must also guard against family,  household members and others receiving improper  betting advantages. • we do not promote unlawful or unlicensed betting.  fox prohibits its personnel from endorsing,  promoting or otherwise advancing unlawful or  unlicensed sports betting or gambling. • at fox, we always uphold the integrity of sporting events or sports betting that fox broadcasts or  promotes. fox’s unique position as a leading sports broadcaster, coupled with its relationship to the  sports betting industry, necessitates extra care to  avoid even the appearance of impropriety in this area. we avoid taking any step that might be viewed as  creating that perception and promptly report any  incident or event that might do so.  fox employees are encouraged to seek clarification   on the use of non-public information from the legal   department, the chief ethics and compliance officer  and the chief legal and policy officer.introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights  community forward   people forward sustainably forward policy forward  our policies ethics & compliance dynamic risk assessment s data forward sasb appendix political involvement  in  , fox amended the political activities policy  to provide for nominating and corporate governance   committee oversight of the company’s political   activities and the publication of the annual  political activities report , as well as to include an   affirmation that fees paid to industry trade organizations are for membership dues and not earmarked for  indirect grassroots lobbying.  fox’s political activities policy is designed to ensure   that all fox employees, officers and directors comply  with all laws and regulations that apply to political  activities due to employment or association with fox. the report focuses on six areas of political activity:  • providing gifts or other items of value to public officials;  • lobbying lawmakers and government officials on  policies that are important to fox;  • making corporate or personal political contributions;  • running for political office;  • supporting the fox political action committee  (foxpac); and  • trade association membership.  the fox political activities report also outlines the company’s engagement efforts in six areas of corporate  political activity in  :  • the amounts and recipients of contributions made   by the fox political action committee;  • the amounts and recipients of corporate political  contributions to state and local candidates;  • total federal lobbying expenses;  • specific policy issues on which the fox government relations office advocated;  • the names of executives and outside consulting firms that performed lobbying activities for us; and  • our trade association memberships and certain non-profit organization contributions. editorial guidelines and broadcast standards the first amendment and the fundamental values it  embodies help define who we are and what we do.  as an important source of news, information, analysis and media, we play a leading role in the marketplace  of ideas. our flagship news properties are some of the most influential in history, and we respect the significant   responsibility that comes with being a steward of the people’s right to know. the core values of our entire business—free press, free speech and free  expression—reflect our commitment to the people’s  right to know, to be informed and to participate  in the marketplace of ideas. fox’s standards of  business conduct, employee handbook and   standards & practices program standards manual   confirm our position and expectations regarding editorial   independence and broadcast standards. employees  are required to read the policies and acknowledge that they have done so. fox is committed to: • accuracy and editorial independence: our news   organizations carefully vet sources and check facts, and we maintain strict separation between revenue sources and our news and opinion content. • freedom of speech and the press: we zealously  guard and defend our journalists in their search for the truth. indeed, we believe so strongly in these core values that we have often come to the defense of our   competitors, recognizing that a free press benefits   all of us and requires the support of each and every one of us. • protection of the newsgathering process: fox  protects the integrity of the entire newsgathering and editorial process. we safeguard the confidentiality of information, communications and sources that our  journalists acquire in the course of their reporting.  we defend against external intrusion into the editorial   or thought processes of our newsroom personnel,  including the disclosure of drafts, edits or  confidential newsroom discussions about which   stories merit publication. • journalistic independence: fox staunchly supports  the editorial judgments of our reporters and will   resist the attempts of litigants, regulators or other third parties to infringe on them. • respecting of cultural rights and diversity: various fox programming and advertising guidelines outline our expectations regarding sensitivity to and respect  for ethnic, religious, sexual and other areas of social   concern. • equal access to content and services: fox networks  are widely distributed (including cable, satellite and streaming), ensuring that anyone can easily gain  access to our content. fox news and fox business  are available in approximately   million u.s.   households, and the fox network covers  approximately  . % of u.s. television households.  to ensure access for people with disabilities, fox  provides closed captioning, video description and visual access to emergency information. • promoting responsible decision making by appropriate   audiences: we provide v-chip ratings and advisories, where applicable, on all entertainment programming and promotions longer than ten seconds (excluding  news and live sports), allowing parents to block   programs they do not want children to watch. we are also beginning to provide ratings for programming that appear on our recently-acquired streaming  service tubi, which also provides parental controls  to block programs.    introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights  community forward   people forward sustainably forward policy forward  our policies ethics & compliance dynamic risk assessment s data forward sasb appendix  • protecting intellectual property: we engage in fair   competition, protect our intellectual property and respect the intellectual property and proprietary information of others. we do not seek or accept the  confidential information of competitors or business  partners to gain an improper commercial advantage. we do not download or use copyrighted materials—such as pictures, films or videos, music, software  or source code—without a proper license. in november  , fox news became a partner in   the protect press freedom campaign launched by   the committee to protect journalists to create public  awareness about threats to press freedom. other  members of the campaign include cnn, the new york times, reuters, the wall street journal and the  washington post. in addition, for many years, fox news and fox television   stations have supported the media law resources   center (mlrc), founded in   by leading american publishers and broadcasters to assist in defending and protecting free press rights under the first amendment.  today, mlrc is supported by more than   members, including leading publishers, broadcasters and cable  programmers, as well as internet operations, media and  professional trade associations, and media insurance professionals in the u.s. and around the world. fox corporation’s standards & practices program group  reviews advertising and on-air promotional material to confirm that it complies with regulatory and network  guidelines and is placed within appropriate programming.   our business units maintain portals through which   viewers can provide feedback regarding the content of programming, advertising and on-air promotional  materials. the feedback portals relating to our sports and entertainment programming are available at fox   and fox sports , and we will be implementing feedback  portals at fox news channel and fox business in the future. the standards & practices program group   maintains records of all complaints received through  these portals as well as feedback passed to the network via local stations. we use viewer feedback to review our standards & practices judgments with regard to content and scheduling. fox also participates in many industry initiatives and  organizations to promote media ethics, including: entertainment industries council: fox regularly hosts  events and supports initiatives that further the council’s mission to encourage the entertainment industry to more effectively address and accurately depict major health and social issues. tv parental guidelines monitoring board: fox is an  active member of this organization, which is “responsible for ensuring there is as much uniformity and consistency in applying the parental guidelines as possible.” advertising ethics  the marketplace of ideas is where fox and its brands  thrive. our success rests on the principles of free  expression, free inquiry and freedom of choice. that also holds true for our participation in the business world generally, where we vigorously protect our reputation  for honesty, transparency and fair competition.  our credibility lies at the core of our success, from the  content we create to the advertising that appears on our networks. our networks sell commercial announcement time for the advertising of goods and services and for institutional advertising. we recognize that advertising must be truthful, appropriate, and comply with all  federal communications commission, federal trade  commission and legal requirements. the fox network’s advertiser guidelines provide a  comprehensive set of standards covering, among other things, stereotyping and other community sensibilities, violence and anti-social behavior and requirements for product claims to be fully substantiated. the advertiser guidelines also mandate that every   commercial airing on the fox network must be   evaluated and approved in advance by fox’s broadcast standards department, which reserves the right, at any time, to withdraw approval of a commercial spot. fox’s standards & practices program group reviews  advertising and on-air promotional material to confirm it  complies with regulatory and network guidelines. introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights  community forward   people forward sustainably forward policy forward  our policies ethics & compliance dynamic risk assessment s data forward sasb appendix data   forward our audiences welcome us into their homes and their lives through   our content. we protect that relationship by handling personal   information responsibly and with care. fox uses commercially  reasonable administrative, technical, personnel and physical   measures designed to safeguard information in its possession   against loss, theft and unauthorized use, disclosure or modification. data privacy policy fox’s privacy policies are designed to provide clarity and  transparency about how we collect, use, disclose and retain users’ personal information. these policies describe our businesses’  practices concerning personal information collected through services  such as websites, mobile sites and applications. for example, fox’s  privacy policies identify the sources of personal information, the  purposes for using personal information (such as to operate our  businesses or provide our products and services) and the categories of other parties with whom that information is shared. fox’s privacy  policies also provide various choices for consumers to access and  control their personal information, including the ability to access   and delete their personal information. fox also notifies users of changes to its privacy policies, including  informing users that they should look at the effective date of the  applicable policy to see when it was last revised and that any changes will become effective when a revised policy is posted. fox treats personal information consistent with these stated   purposes, and we comply with notice requirements under applicable law and consistent with fox’s incident response plan.  introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights  community forward   people forward sustainably forwardpolicy forward data forward data privacy policy data privacy program  data security sasb appendix  data privacy program fox has a dedicated privacy department, headed by   two co-chief privacy officers who share oversight and responsibility over the enterprise’s privacy program. the privacy department works closely with fox’s   information security department and chief information security officer to ensure a coordinated and layered  approach to protecting user data. fox engages  employees on privacy-related risk, compliance and  information protection procedures through regular  training. fox also participates in data privacy industry  organizations including as a corporate member of the   international association of privacy professionals (iapp). fox’s co-chief privacy officers are experts in their   field and have spoken on privacy panels at industry  conferences including the iapp, the american bar   association forum on communications law, the   privacy + security forum and the ucla ziffren institute for media, entertainment, technology & sports law’s privacy and access series.   data security fox has a dedicated information security department  headed by its chief information security officer.  fox uses the national institute of standards and  technology (nist) framework in assessing the overall  maturity of its cybersecurity program, including how   the program assesses and mitigates risks.   an independent third-party auditing firm annually  assesses our adherence to the nist framework and  our program maturity against industry benchmarks.   the chief information security officer updates the   audit committee of the board of directors quarterly  on our cybersecurity program and on progress against maturity improvement areas. fox also regularly employs internal and external   technical penetration testing and audit procedures  against our environments including those systems,   products and practices collecting or storing confidential business and personal information—including user  data—in accordance with fox’s security policies. these tests are routinely performed at the application,  infrastructure and network level by leading third-party assessment firms. fox conducts annual mandatory company-wide   cybersecurity compliance training, fosters awareness  during cybersecurity awareness month, releases monthly cybersecurity training videos and conducts regular targeted employee training. fox also regularly conducts executive tabletop exercises involving   detailed and topical cybersecurity scenarios.fox technology center  built for the future the fox technology center (ftc), a critical cornerstone of fox’s investment   in next-generation broadcast technology, became operational in  . built from the ground up in tempe, arizona, the state-of-the-art complex provides essential technical foundations for the company’s digital streaming and content distribution capabilities.  the  ,  square foot complex powers all of fox’s marquee broadcast events   including the mlb world series, ncaa football and basketball, fifa men's and fifa women's world cups, nfl season and nfc championships, midterm elections and  super bowl lvii.  since its inception, the ftc team has already delivered  ,  out of  ,  live   sports and entertainment events broadcast by fox and over  ,  media   assets. it delivers thousands of hours of content in high definition,  k and  k to any  device or platform and supports over  ,  distribution partners nationwide and  over   fox-affiliated stations. additionally, the ftc powers the company’s fox weather channel. the ftc also incorporates a range of investments and partnerships in key areas,   including integrated cloud computing, software engineering, artificial intelligence,   enhanced video processing and delivery standards such as atsc  .  and  g. moreover, ftc has a data and media center that performs various data and information  processing tasks, such as asset ingestion, metadata processing, content management, storage, transformation and distribution. we also employ high-tech personnel and  systems responsible for cybersecurity. the ftc is one of the media industry’s most advanced data architectures, and we strive  to support individual and collective innovation for all our tech team members across the country and around the world. introduction about fox  our approach  fiscal year   highlights  community forward  people forwardsustainably forward policy forward data forward data privacy policy data privacy program  data security sasb appendix  introduction about fox our approach  fiscal year   highlights  community forward   people forward sustainably forwardpolicy forwarddata forward sasb appendixtopic accounting metric code fox corporation disclosures media pluralismpercentage of gender and racial/ethnic group representation for ( ) management, ( ) professionals,  and ( ) all other employeessv-me- a. we disclose information on the gender and racial/ethnic composition of our workforce,  and examples of advancing diversity and inclusion at fox, in the “people forward” section  of this report on page  . please also see the data contained in our   eeo-  report,   which is posted on foxcorporation.com. description of policies and procedures for ensuring pluralism in news media content sv-me- a. as an important source of news, information, analysis and media, we recognize our responsibility to build a culture of trust, integrity and ethical behavior. read more in the “editorial guidelines and broadcast  standards” section of this report on pages  - . journalism integrity  & sponsorship  identificationtotal amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with libel or slander sv-me- a.  we disclose material legal proceedings in annual and quarterly reports filed with the sec. revenue from embedded advertising sv-me- a.  this information is not part of our public reporting. description of approach for ensuring journalistic integrity of news programming   related to: ( ) truthfulness, accuracy, objectivity, fairness, and accountability,   ( ) independence of content and/or transparency of potential bias, and ( ) protection   of privacy and limitation of harmsv-me- a. as an important source of news, information, analysis and media, we recognize our responsibility to build  a culture of trust, integrity and ethical behavior. read more in the “editorial guidelines and broadcast  standards” section of this report on pages  - . intellectual   property protection   & media piracydescription of approach for ensuring intellectual property (ip) protection sv-me- a. we always engage in fair competition, protect our intellectual property and respect the intellectual  property and proprietary information of others. read more in the “editorial guidelines and broadcast standards” section of this report on pages  - . topic activity metric code fox corporation disclosures recipients of media( ) total recipients of media, ( ) the number of households reached by broadcast tv, ( ) subscribers to cable networks, and  ( ) circulation for magazines and newspaperssv-me- .aplease refer to pp.  -  of the fox corporation annual report on form  -k for the fiscal year ended june  ,   (“fiscal  ”) for  information regarding the reach of our broadcast and cable networks, television stations and other properties, including: •  t he fox network delivers primetime programming to   local market affiliates, including   stations owned and operated by the company,  covering approximately  . % of all u.s. television households, according to the nielsen company (“nielsen”) •  f ox television stations owns and operates   full power broadcast television stations, which deliver broadcast network content, local news  and syndicated programming to viewers in   local markets. these include stations located in   of the top   largest nielsen-designated market areas (“dmas”) and two stations (referred to as duopolies) in each of   dmas, including the three largest dmas (new york, los  angeles and chicago). collectively, the stations reach over  % of the u.s. television households in these   dmas as of january  ,  according to nielsen •  our c able networks and the number of subscribers to each network as of june  ,   as estimated by nielsen include: fox news (   million), fox business (  million), fs  (  million), fs  (  million), the big ten network (  million) and fox deportes (  million) •  t he ubiquitous availability of tubi, our advertising-supported video on demand service, both online and through its app provides broad  distribution of films, episodic television programming and live local and national news content. tubi carries nearly   local station feeds (including feeds of our owned and operated stations), covering   dmas and   of the top   markets media productions   and publicationstotal number of media productions and publications produced sv-me- .bplease refer to pp.  -  of the fiscal   form  -k for a discussion of our programming and other content, including the following: •  t he approximate number of hours of local news fox television stations produce weekly •  t he approximate number of hours of primetime programming the fox network delivers weekly •  t he number of programs and local station feeds offered by tubisasb  appendix sustainability accounting standards board disclosures this index references the fox corporation information pertaining to standards applicable to companies classified by the  sustainability accounting standards board (sasb) in the media & entertainment industry, as per sasb’s sustainable industry classification system®. data as of june  ,   